GSE	description	abstract	keyword
GSE64912	RNA-Sequencing of human papillary thyroid carcinomas	RNA-Sequencing analysis of 18 papillary thyroid carcinoma biopsies and of 4 healthy donors' thyroids. In this analysis we assessed differential gene expression and investigated the mutational landscape in this tumor type. Analysis of gene fusion was also performed, leading to the identification of a novel chimeric transcript, potential driver in tumor initiation.	NA
GSE83635	RNA-seq analysis to identify the genes regulated by p53-SET interplay	To identify the genes regulated by SET in a p53-dependent manner, the endogenous SET was depleted by siRNA in control or p53 knockout U2OS cells. Total RNA from each sample was extracted and the whole profile of gene expression was analyzed by RNA-seq analysis.	knockout/siRNA
GSE71569	Interactions of aCPs with Cytosine-rich Polypyrimidine Tracts Enhance Splicing of Cassette Exons	Alternative splicing comprises a robust generator of mammalian transcriptome complexity. Splice site specification and activity are controlled by interactions of cis-acting determinants on a transcript with specific RNA binding proteins. A major subset of these interactions comprises interactions localized to the intronic U-rich polypyrimidine tract located immediately 5’ to the majority of splice acceptors.  alphaCPs (also referred to as polyC-binding proteins (PCBPs) and hnRNP Es) comprise a subset of KH-domain proteins with high specificity and affinity for C-rich polypyrimidine motifs. Prior studies have revealed that binding of alphaCPs to C-rich motifs can modulate splicing and 3’ processing of the human alpha-globin mRNA transcript in the nucleus as well as stabilization of the halpha-globin mRNA in the cytoplasm. In the current report, we demonstrate that alphaCPs have a positive impact on the activity of splice acceptor sites in a defined subset of mammalian transcripts via binding to polypyrimidine tracts that are predominantly C-rich. These findings lead us to conclude that the alphaCPs play a global role in determining the splicing activity and levels of cassette exon inclusion within the mammalian transcriptome.	NA
GSE79666	Transcriptome sequencing reveals aberrant alternative splicing in Huntington's disease	Huntington’s disease (HD) is an autosomal dominant neurodegenerative disorder caused by a CAG expansion in the gene encoding Huntingtin (HTT). Transcriptome dysregulation is a major feature of HD pathogenesis, as revealed by a large body of work on gene expression profiling of tissues from human HD patients and mouse models. These studies were primarily focused on transcriptional changes affecting steady-state overall gene expression levels using microarray based approaches. A major missing component however has been the study of transcriptome changes at the post-transcriptional level, such as alternative splicing. Alternative splicing is a critical mechanism for expanding regulatory and functional diversity from a limited number of genes, and is particularly complex in the mammalian brain. Here we carried out a deep RNA-seq analysis of 7 human HD brains and 7 controls to systematically discover aberrant alternative splicing events and characterize potential associated splicing factors in HD. We identified 593 differential alternative splicing events between HD and control brains. Using an expanded panel of 54 brain tissues from patients and controls, we also identified 9 splicing factors exhibiting significantly altered expression levels in HD patient brains. Moreover, follow-up molecular analyses of one splicing factor PTBP1 revealed its impact on disease-associated splicing patterns in HD. Collectively, our data provide genomic evidence for widespread splicing dysregulation in HD brains, and suggest the role of aberrant alternative splicing in the pathogenesis of HD	Huntington
GSE54511	Different molecular pathways along with pathogenesis of three subtypes of Leiomyosarcoma	Leiomyosarcoma (LMS) is a malignant neoplasm of smooth muscle and is an aggressive soft tissue tumor, have complex genetic abnormalities and could be defined as three molecular subtypes. Since that the molecular heterogeneity of LMS, the pathogenesis analysis per subtype will be highly necessary and helpful to understand the etiology of this more common sarcoma.	pathway
GSE79680	HEK293 Heat-shock experiment	HEK293 cells were heatshocked and differentially expressed transcripts were identified	NA
GSE81579	Transcriptome analysis of human cumulus cells reveals hypoxia as the main determinant of follicular senescence.	RNA sequencing profiling of cumulus cells revealed that the follicles of older women have a compromised environment with hypoxic stress being the main contributor to age-related oocyte quality decay.	NA
GSE61674	In vitro differentiation of human low threshold mechanoreceptive (LTMR) neurons from embryonic stem cells	Human embryonic stem cells were differentiated into peripheral sensory neurons via the intermediate generation of neural crest like cell (NCC). Using various markers we identified these cells as LTMR. We then analyzed there complete transcriptional profile in comparison to the intermediate neural crest like cells.	NA
GSE70084	RNA sequencing of mechanically strained NHEKs and control NHEKs	We sequenced mRNA from NHEKs that had been subjected to cyclic biaxial mechanical strain at 100 mHz for 12h together with unstrained control NHEKs, 3 biological replicates each	NA
GSE66446	The Cushing's disease adipose gene expression profile reveals effects of long term glucocorticoids on adipose tissue lipid, protein and glucose metabolism	Glucocorticoids have major effects on adipose tissue metabolism. To study tissue mRNA expression changes induced by chronic elevated endogenous glucocorticoids, we performed RNA sequencing on subcutaneous adipose tissue from patients with Cushing’s disease (n=5) compared to patients with non-functioning pituitary adenomas (n=11). We found higher expression of transcripts involved in several metabolic pathways, including lipogenesis, proteolysis and glucose oxidation as well as decreased expression of transcripts involved in inflammation and protein synthesis. To further study this in a model system, we subjected mice to dexamethasone treatment for 12 weeks and analyzed their inguinal (subcutaneous) fat pads, which led to similar findings.  Additionally, mice treated with dexamethasone showed drastic decreases in lean body mass as well as increased fat mass, further supporting the human transcriptomic data. These data provide insight to transcriptional changes that may be responsible for the co-morbidities associated with chronic elevations of glucocorticoids	pathway
GSE80979	Opposing Effects of Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) on Estrogen Receptor β (ERβ) Response to 5α-reductase Inhibition in Prostate Epithelial Cells	Current pharmacotherapies for symptomatic benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), an androgen receptor (AR) driven, inflammatory disorder affecting elderly men, include 5α-reductase (5AR) inhibitors (i.e. dutasteride and finasteride) to block the conversion of testosterone to the more potent AR ligand dihydrotestosterone (DHT). Since DHT is the precursor for estrogen receptor β (ERβ) ligands, 5AR inhibitors could potentially limit ERβ activation, which maintains prostate tissue homeostasis. We have uncovered signaling pathways in BPH-derived prostate epithelial cells (BPH-1) that are impacted by 5AR inhibition. The induction of apoptosis and repression of the cell-adhesion protein E-cadherin by the 5AR inhibitor, dutasteride, requires both ERβ and TGFβ. Dutasteride also induces cyclooxygenase type 2 (COX-2), which functions in a negative-feedback loop in TGFβ and ERβ signaling pathways as evidenced by the potentiation of apoptosis induced by dutasteride or finasteride upon pharmacological inhibition or shRNA-mediated ablation of COX-2. Concurrently, COX-2 positively impacts ERβ action through its effect on the expression of a number of steroidogenic enzymes in the ERβ-ligand metabolic pathway. Therefore, effective combination pharmacotherapies, which have included non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, must take into account biochemical pathways affected by 5AR inhibition and opposing effects of COX-2 on the tissue protective action of ERβ.	pathway
GSE62982	Peroxisome Proliferator-activated Receptor gamma- Deficiency in Endothelial Cells Impairs Angiogenic Capacity by Loss-of E2F1 Mediated Wnt Effector Genes	Some of the functions and mechanisms of PPARγ-mediated regulation of vascular homeostasis have been revealed, the potential role of PPARγ in angiogenesis is obscure. In human ECs, PPARγ-deficiency was studied using siRNA strategy and RNA sequencing was utilized to reveal angiogenesis-associated targets for PPARg.	siRNA
GSE81062	Targeting MTHFD2 in Acute Myeloid Leukemia	Purpose:  Identify new targets in acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Methods:  MOLM-14 cells were transduced with lentivirus encoding shRNAs targeting MTHFD2 (shMTHFD2 hairpin TRCN0000036553, denoted M5) and control (LacZ, shControl TRCN0000072231). RNA from 6 samples, biological duplicates (LacZ1, LacZ2; M5-1, M5-2) and a technical replicate (LacZ3, M5-3) were sequenced as 50+50 bp paired-end reads using Illumina TruSeq strand specific library. The pool of six samples was sequenced on two lanes of an Illumina HiSeq, generating 101bp paired end reads.  The software package RSEM (Li et al., 2001) was run using Bowtie (version 1.0.0) to align the reads that passed quality filters  to the hg19 GENCODE version 17 (http://www.gencodegenes.org/releases/17.html) transcriptome and to quantify transcript abundance at isoform and gene level. Results: MTHFD2 suppression induces AML differentiation. There was upregulation of well-validated myeloid differentiation genes and gene sets consistent with myeloid maturation. Conclusion: Our study supports the therapeutic targeting of MTHFD2 in AML.	Acute Myeloid Leukemia
GSE60630	RNA-Seq to assess the transcriptional effects of G quadruplex stabilization by the G4 ligand PhenDC3 in HT-1080 cells	G-quadruplex motifs are frequently located near TSS and in the first introns of transcribed genes. We investigated the role that G4 structures play in transcription by stabilizing G4 DNA with the selective G4 ligand PhenDC3 in the HT-1080 human fibrosarcoma cell line. After treatment of triplicate samples with PhenDC3 or a negative control (DMSO carrier only), we performed RNA-Seq after poly-dT selection to assess changes in gene expression.  Heme is an essential cofactor for many enzymes, but free heme is toxic and its levels are tightly regulated. G-quadruplexes bind heme avidly in vitro, raising the possibility that they may sequester heme in vivo. If so, then treatment that displaces heme from quadruplexes is predicted to induce expression of genes involved in iron and heme homeostasis. Here we show that PhenDC3, a G-quadruplex ligand structurally unrelated to heme, displaces quadruplex-bound heme in vitro and alters transcription in cultured human cells, up-regulating genes that support heme degradation and iron homeostasis, and most strikingly causing a 30-fold induction of heme oxidase 1, the key enzyme in heme degradation. We propose that G-quadruplexes sequester heme to protect cells from the pathophysiological consequences of free heme. This identifies a new function for G-quadruplexes and a new mechanism for protection of cells from heme.	NA
GSE58326	Global analysis of ZNF217 chromatin occupancy in the breast cancer cell genome reveals an association with Eralpha	Background: The ZNF217 gene, encoding a C2H2 zinc finger protein, is located at 20q13 and found amplified and overexpressed in greater than 20% of breast tumors. Current studies indicate ZNF217 drives tumorigenesis, yet the regulatory mechanisms of ZNF217 are largely unknown. Because ZNF217 associates with chromatin modifying enzymes, we postulate that ZNF217 functions to regulate specific gene signaling networks. Here, we present a large-scale functional genomic analysis of ZNF217, which provides insights into the regulatory role of ZNF217 in MCF7 breast cancer cells. Results: ChIP-seq analysis reveals that the majority of ZNF217 binding sites are located at distal regulatory regions associated with the chromatin marks H3K27ac and H3K4me1. Analysis of ChIPseq transcription factor binding sites shows clustering of ZNF217 with FOXA1, GATA3 and ERalpha binding sites, supported by the enrichment of corresponding motifs for the ERalpha-associated cisregulatory sequences. ERalpha expression highly correlates with ZNF217 in lysates from breast tumors (n=15), and ERalpha co-precipitates ZNF217 and its binding partner CtBP2 from nuclear extracts. Transcriptome profiling following ZNF217 depletion identifies differentially expressed genes co-bound by ZNF217 and ERalpha; gene ontology suggests a role for ZNF217-ERalpha in expression programs associated with ER+ breast cancer studies found in the Molecular Signature Database. Data-mining of expression data from breast cancer patients correlates ZNF217 with reduced overall survival in multiple subtypes. Conclusions: Our genome-wide ZNF217 data suggests a functional role for ZNF217 at ERalpha target genes. Future studies will investigate whether ZNF217 expression contributes to aberrant ERalpha regulatory events in ER+ breast cancer and hormone resistance	Breast cancer/Cancer
GSE81402	Analysis of chromosomal aberrations and recombination by allelic bias in RNA-Seq	Genomic instability has profound effects on cellular phenotypes. Studies have shown that pluripotent cells with abnormal karyotypes may grow faster, differentiate less and become more resistance to apoptosis. Previously, we showed that microarray gene expression profiles can be utilized for the analysis of chromosomal aberrations by comparing gene expression levels between normal and aneuploid samples. Here we adopted this method for RNA-Seq data and present eSNP-Karyotyping for the detection of chromosomal aberrations, based on measuring the ratio of expression between the two alleles. We demonstrate its ability to detect chromosomal gains and losses in pluripotent cells and their derivatives, as well as meiotic recombination patterns. This method is advantageous since it does not require matched diploid samples for comparison, is less sensitive to global expression changes caused by the aberration, and utilizes already available gene expression profiles to determine chromosomal aberrations.	NA
GSE72141	GATA3-mediated chromatin reprogramming in breast cancer cells	Pioneer transcription factors bind to silent chromatin, and initiate cell fate conversion. One potential pioneer factor, GATA3, is a critical component for multiple cellular programs. GATA3 is of particular interest as it regulates gene expression in breast cancers, and low expression correlates with poor prognosis. Here we demonstrate the pioneering activity of GATA3 utilizing a cellular reprogramming system (the mesenchymal-epithelial transition) in breast cancer cells. During the epithelial transition, GATA3 catalyzes chromatin reprogramming by inducing chromatin opening, active enhancer modifications, and nucleosome remodelling. We determined that the transactivation domain is required for this chromatin reprogramming. Importantly, a mutant lacking the transactivation domain possessed the chromatin binding ability but failed to create open chromatin, suggesting binding alone is not sufficient to induce open chromatin. These data illustrate a fundamental mechanism of GATA3-mediated gene regulation, and provide evidence for a pre-engagement state of closed chromatin bound by a pioneer factor.	Breast cancer/Cancer
GSE74220	Transcriptome response to 4h IL-1b stimulation of primary chondrocytes	Using RNA sequencing (Illumina Hi-Seq 2000 sequencer) we report the transcriptome profile of primary human chondrocytes isolated from patients with hip osteoarthritis (OA), and the transcriptome response of these cells to 4h stimulation with IL-1β (1ng/ml).  In total, 983 long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) were identified, which included 642 intergenic lncRNAs (lincRNAs), 124 antisense and pseudogenes.  Less than 4% of the identified lncRNAs overlapped with putative eRNAs regions, and visual inspection showed that they were uni-directional and multi-exonic.  Upon  IL-1β stimulation 499 protein-coding genes were differentially expressed, and 158 lncRNAs were differentially expressed, including 92 lincRNAs, 13 antisense and 18 psudogenes.  This study demonstrates that IL-1β induces a rapid and widespread change in the transcriptome of the primary human OA chondrocyte.	NA
GSE71070	Treatment of prostate cancer cells with S-adenosylmethionine leads to genomewide alterations of transcription profiles	The analysis investigates the impact of methyl donor S-adenosylmethionin on transcription and methylation profiles of prostate carcinoma cells.	Cancer/Prostate cancer
GSE66014	Global Gene Expression analysis of CUTLL1 cell lines after treatment with Perhexiline	We identify perhexiline, a small molecule inhibitor of mitochondrial carnitine palmitoyltransferase-1, as a HES1-signature antagonist drug with robust antileukemic activity against NOTCH1 induced leukemias in vitro and in vivo.	NA
GSE84186	Single-nucleotide-resolution mapping of HBV promoters using CAGE	We provide a comprehensive map of transcription start sites (TSSs) for HBV at single nucleotide resolution using CAGE.	NA
GSE71203	Transcriptome analysis of RANK-positive and RANK-negative luminal progenitor subpopulations in the human breast	RANK-positive and RANK-negative luminal progenitor cells were isolated by FACS from histologically normal human breast tissue from wild-type human donors. RNA-seq gene expression profiling was used to find differentially expressed genes between the RANK-positive and RANK-negative cell populations.	NA
GSE83601	Dysregulated immune system networks in war veterans with PTSD	Purpose: RNA-Seq analysis can help identify large set of differentially expressed genes at a time. We performed RNA-Seq analysis to identify differentially expressed genes in the PBMCs of war veterans suffering from PTSD. Methods: Total RNA from PBMCs from PTSD +ve and -ve individuals were used for RNA-Seq analysis. Results: We obtained, on average, ~60 millions reads per sample. More than 70% of the reads were mapped to human genome. Functional analysis of the differentially expressed genes (362) revealed dysregulation in immune system network. Conclusions: Our present study provides further proof that immune system related genes and pathways are dysregulated in PTSD PBMCs.	pathway
GSE65000	Human-specific gene ARHGAP11B promotes basal progenitor amplification and neocortex expansion	The evolutionary expansion of the human neocortex reflects increased amplification of basal progenitors in the subventricular zone, producing more neurons during fetal corticogenesis. Here, we analyze the transcriptomes of distinct progenitor subpopulations isolated by a novel approach from developing mouse and human neocortex. We identify 56 genes preferentially expressed in human apical and basal radial glia that lack mouse orthologs. Among these, ARHGAP11B has the highest degree of radial glia-specific expression. ARHGAP11B arose from partial duplication of the Rho GTPase-activating-protein–encoding ARHGAP11A on the human lineage after separation from the chimpanzee lineage. Expression of ARHGAP11B in embryonic mouse neocortex promotes basal progenitor generation and self-renewal, and can increase cortical plate area and induce gyrification. Hence, ARHGAP11B may have contributed to evolutionary expansion of human neocortex.	NA
GSE67070	Stem cell and neurogenic gene-expression profiles link prostate basal cells to aggressive prostate cancer	The prostate gland mainly contains basal and luminal cells constructed as a pseudostratified epithelium. Annotation of prostate epithelial transcriptomes provides a foundation for discoveries that can impact disease understanding and treatment. Here, we describe a whole-genome transcriptome analysis of human benign prostatic basal and luminal populations by using deep RNA sequencing. Combined with comprehensive molecular and biological characterizations, we show that the differential gene expression profiles account for their distinct functional phenotypes. Strikingly, in contrast to luminal cells, basal cells preferentially express gene categories associated with stem cells, neural and neuronal development and RNA processing. Consistent with their expression profiles, basal cells functionally exhibit intrinsic stem-like and proneural properties with enhanced ribosome RNA (rRNA) transcription activity. Of clinical relevance, the treatment failed castration-resistant and anaplastic prostate cancers molecularly resemble a basal-like phenotype. Therefore, we link the cell-type specific gene signatures to subtypes of prostate cancer development, and identify genes associated with patient clinical outcome.	Cancer/Prostate cancer
GSE54505	TWIST1-induced microRNA-424 drives an intermediate epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition that opposes metastasis	Epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) is a dynamic process that relies on cellular plasticity; an EMT/MET axis is critical for metastatic colonization of carcinomas. Unlike epithelial programming, regulation of mesenchymal programming is not well understood in EMT. Here we describe the first microRNA that enhances exclusively mesenchymal programming. We demonstrate that microRNA-424 is up-regulated early during a TWIST1/SNAI1-induced EMT, and that it causes cells to express mesenchymal genes without affecting epithelial genes, resulting in a mixed/intermediate EMT. Further, microRNA-424 increases motility, decreases adhesion and induces a growth arrest, changes associated with a complete EMT. Patient microRNA-424 levels positively associate with TWIST1/2 and EMT-like gene signatures and is increased in primary tumors versus matched normal breast. However, microRNA-424 is down-regulated in metastases versus matched primary tumors. Correspondingly, microRNA-424 decreases tumor initiation and is post-transcriptionally down-regulated in macrometastases in mice. RNA-seq identified microRNA-424 regulates numerous genes associated with EMT and breast cancer stemness including the novel miR-424 target, TGFBR3, which regulates mesenchymal phenotypes without influencing miR-424 effects on tumor-initiating phenotypes; instead, we show that ERK signaling is critical for such tumor-initiating effects of miR-424. These findings suggest microRNA-424 plays distinct roles downstream of EMT-inducing factors, facilitating earlier stages, but repressing later stages, of metastasis.	Breast cancer/Cancer
GSE84322	Transcriptome Sequencing of Adipose-Derived Mesechymal Stromal Cells	We performed RNA-sequencing to determine the abundance of all RNA transcripts expressed by adipose-derived mesenchymal stromal cells (AMSC) under proliferating and confluent conditions.	NA
GSE84639	Enriched retinal ganglion cells derived from human embryonic stem cells (RNA-seq)	We performed the whole transcriptome analysis in human H9 ES cells and in retinal ganglion cells (RGC) derived from H9 ES cells.	NA
GSE81478	Transcriptome sequencing wide functional analysis of human mesenchymal stem cells	Using RNA-seq, we report here that BM-MSC cells have a distinct transcriptomic signature and express a unique cluster of transcripts in response to 4 hrs LPS.	NA
GSE68925	RNAi profiling of primary human AML cells identifies ROCK1 as a therapeutic target and nominates Fasudil as an anti-leukemic drug.	Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is characterized by a marked genetic heterogeneity, which complicates the development of novel therapeutics. The delineation of pathways essential within the patient-individual mutational background might overcome this limitation and facilitate personalized treatment. We report the results of a large-scale lentiviral loss-offunction RNA-interference-(RNAi)-screen in primary leukemic cells. Stringent validation identified six genes (BNIPL1, ROCK1, RPS13, STK3, SNX27, WDHD1) whose knockdown impaired growth and viability of the cells. Dependence on these genes was not caused by mutation or overexpression and while some of the candidates seemed to be rather patientspecific, others were essential in cells isolated from other AML patients. In addition to the phenotype observed after ROCK1 knockdown, treatment with the approved ROCK-inhibitor fasudil resulted in increased apoptosis and decreased viability of primary AML cells. In contrast to observations in some other malignancies, ROCK1-inhibition did not foster growth of immature malignant progenitors; but was also toxic to this cell fraction in feeder-co-culture and xenotransplantion experiments, indicating a distinct effect of ROCK1 inhibition on leukemic progenitors. We conclude that large scale RNAi screens in primary patient-derived cells are feasible and can complement other methods for personalized cancer therapies, such as expression and mutation profiling.	Cancer/Acute Myeloid Leukemia/knockdown/pathway
GSE56235	Effect of PRDM11 depletion in U2932 cells	The PR-domain family e(PRDMs) encodes transcriptional regulators, several of which are deregulated in cancer. We found that loss of Prdm11 accelerates MYC-driven lymphomagenesis in the Eµ-Myc mouse model. Moreover, we show that patients with PRDM11-deficient diffuse large B cell lymphomas (DLBCLs) have poorer overall survival and belong to the non-Germinal Center B cell (GCB)-like subtype. Mechanistically, genome-wide mapping of PRDM11 binding sites coupled with transcriptome sequencing in human DLBCL cells evidenced that PRDM11 associates with transcriptional start sites of target genes and regulates important oncogenes such as FOS and JUN.  Hence, we characterize PRDM11 as a novel tumor suppressor controlling the expression of key oncogenes and add new mechanistic insight into B-cell lymphomagenesis.	Cancer
GSE74322	Global gene expression differences between blood- and lymphatic-specific human dermal microvascular endothelial cells	We performed high throughput RNA-sequencing on blood and lymphatic HMVECs to identify differences in gene expression between these two cell types that may provide insight into their respective differentiation and roles in angiogenesis and lymphangiogenesis.	NA
GSE67333	Transcriptomics profiling of Alzheimer’s disease reveal novel molecular targets	Our data provide a comprehensive list of transcriptomics alterations and warrant holistic approach including both coding and non-coding RNAs in functional studies aimed to understand the pathophysiology of LOAD	Alzheimer’s disease/Alzheimer
GSE58365	The BCL6 RD2 domain governs commitment of activated B-cells to form germinal centers	Our data demonstrated that Bcl6 directly binds and represses trafficking receptors S1pr1 and Grp183 by recruiting Hdac2 through the RD2 domain.  Deregulation of these genes impairs B-cell migration and may contribute to the Germinal Center failure in Bcl6RD2MUT mice.	NA
GSE69687	Wnt addiction of genetically defined cancers reversed by PORCN inhibition	Enhanced sensitivity to Wnts is an emerging hallmark of a subset of cancers, defined in part by mutations regulating the abundance of their receptors. Inhibition of Wnt secretion by blocking an essential post-translational modification, palmitoleation, provides a useful therapeutic intervention. Inhibition of PORCN in RSPO3-translocated cancers via treatment with ETC-159 causes a marked remodeling of the transcriptome, with loss of cell cycle, stem cell, and proliferation genes and an increase in differentiation markers. Inhibition of Wnt signaling by PORCN inhibition holds promise as differentiation therapy in genetically defined human cancers.	Cancer
GSE54729	Transcriptome profiling of a mouse model of alveolar soft part sarcoma	In order to dtermine how well a mouse genetic model of alveolar soft part sarcoma (ASPS) mimics the human disease, five human ASPS tumor samples and three normal skeletal muscle samples were profiled by RNAseq and compared to samples from five mouse tumors induced by expression of ASPSCR1-TFE3 and three normal mouse skeletal muscle samples, also profiled by RNAseq.	NA
GSE52385	Next generation sequencing of the transcriptome in MCF-7 cells with/without SRA knockdown	We employed next generation sequencing to examine whether knocking down the steroid receptor RNA activator (SRA) gene significantly affect the expression levels of certain genes in MCF-7 cells. MCF-7 cells were transfected with either a pool of four non-target control siRNAs or a pool of four SRA siRNAs for 32 hrs. 157 million reads were generated from triplicate samples of the control group; 151 million reads were generated from triplicate samples of the SRA knockdown group. Six genes were identified as significantly changed in the expression levels with the cutoff of q value ≤ 0.05, fold change ≤ 0.5 or ≥ 2, and reads per kilobase per million mapped reads (RPKM) ≥ 1. However, except for SRA itself, the other five genes were shown by real-time PCR to be only affected by one siRNA in the SRA siRNA pool. Further analysis of this dataset with different cuttoff setting may reveal true SRA-regulated genes in MCF-7.	knockdown
GSE66158	Suppression of NAF-1 in Breast Cancer Cells Reduces their Tumorigenicity by Interfering with Cellular Iron Distribution and Metabolism and Ensuing ROS Formation and Apoptosis	Nutrient autophagy factor 1 (NAF-1) is an iron-sulfur protein found on the outer mitochondrial membrane and the ER. Recent studies highlighted an important role for NAF-1 in regulating autophagy via interaction with BCL-2. We recently reported that the level of NAF-1 is elevated in cancer cells and that NAF-1 is required for tumor growth. Here we report that shRNA suppression of NAF-1 results in the activation of apoptosis in xenograft tumors and cancer cells grown in culture. Suppression of NAF-1 resulted in a depletion in the cytosolic iron pool, facilitated uptake of iron, and accumulation of iron and ROS in mitochondria, a shift to glycolysis and glutaminolysis, and the activation of cellular stress pathways associated with HIF1α, AMPK and mTOR. Suppression of NAF-1 in breast cancer cells appears therefore to reduce their tumorigenicity by interfering with cellular iron distribution and energy metabolism resulting in the activation of apoptosis.	Breast cancer/Cancer
GSE73471	The bromodomain protein BRD4 regulates splicing during heat shock	During heat stress cyto-protective genes including heat shock proteins are transcriptionally up-regulated and post-transcriptional splicing is inhibited. In contrast, co-transcriptional mRNA-splicing is maintained. These factors closely resemble the proteotoxic stress response during tumor development. The bromodomain protein BRD4 has been identified as an integral member of the oxidative stress as well as of the inflammatory response. Furthermore, there is evidence for BRD4's role in splicing regulation; Using RNA-Seq analyses we indeed found a significant increase in splicing inhibition, in particular intron retentions, during heat treatment in BRD4-deficient cells, but not under normal conditions. Subsequent experiments revealed that heat stress leads to the recruitment of BRD4 to nuclear stress bodies, to the interaction with the heat shock factor 1 (HSF1) and to the transcriptional up-regulation of non-coding Sat III RNA transcripts. These findings implicate BRD4 as a central regulator of splicing during heat stress. Since BRD4 is a potent target for anti-cancer therapies, our data linking BRD4 to the splicing machinery and the heat stress response - give additional insight into the mode of action of BRD4 inhibitors.	Cancer
GSE66573	Defective structural RNA processing in relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis	It is fundamentally unknown how normal cellular processes or responses to extracellular stimuli may invoke polyadenylation and degradation of ncRNA substrates or if human disease processes exhibit defects in polyadenylation of ncRNA substrates as part of their pathogenesis. Our results demonstrate that mononuclear cells from subjects with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) exhibit pervasive increases in levels of polyadenylated ncRNAs including Y1 RNA, 18S and 28S rRNA, and U1, U2, and U4 snRNAs and these defects are unique to RRMS. Defects in expression of both Ro60 and La proteins in RRMS appear to contribute to increased polyadenylation of ncRNAs. Further, IFN-β1b, a common RRMS therapy, restores both Ro60 and La levels to normal as well as levels of polyadenylated Y1 RNA and U1 snRNA suggesting that aberrant polyadenylation of ncRNA substrates may have pathogenic consequences.	NA
GSE80651	RNA sequencing analysis of human podocytes reveals glucocorticoid regulated gene networks targeting non-immune pathways	To understand the nature of glucocorticoids targeting non-immune cell function, we generate RNA sequencing data from 3 human podocyte cell lines derived from 3 kidney transplant donors and identify the genes that are significantly regulated in dexamethasone-treated podocytes compared to vehicle-treated cells.Our results represent a significant step forward in the genome-wide characterization of the molecular effects of glucocorticoids on human podocytes. The resource generated in this study is important for understanding the targeting of non-immune cell function by glucocorticoids and also for designing more specific podocyte-targeted agents for MCN therapy.	pathway
GSE72589	Transcriptome-wide Quantitative Analysis of XLPDR-derived human dermal fibroblasts with POLA1 deficiency	The goal of this study is to analyzed transcriptome changes caused by POLA1 deficiency. Our data represents the first detailed analysis of molecular basis of XLPDR syndrome. We report than POLA1 deficiency leads to over-activation of IRF and NF-kB pathways with overexpression of typical markers of autoimmune syndromes.	pathway
GSE69092	ELAVL2-regulated transcriptional networks in human neurons link atlernative splicing, autism and human neocortical evolution	The role of post-transcriptional gene regulation in human brain development and cognitive diseases remains mostly uncharacterized. ELAV-like RNA binding proteins are a family of proteins that regulate several aspects of neuronal function including neuronal excitability and synaptic transmission. Here, we identify the downstream transcriptional networks of ELAVL2, an RNA-binding protein with unknown function in the brain. We knockdown expression of ELAVL2 in human neurons and conduct RNA-sequencing, identifying networks of differentially expressed and alternatively spliced genes with altered ELAVL2. These networks contain autism-relevant genes as well as previously identified targets of other RNA binding proteins implicated in autism spectrum disorders such as RBFOX1 and FMRP. ELAVL2-regulated coexpression networks are also enriched for synaptic genes as well as genes with human-specific patterns of gene expression in the frontal pole. Together, these data suggest that ELAVL2 regulation of transcript expression is critical for neuronal functions at risk in autism spectrum disorders and such mechanisms of post-transcriptional gene regulation may have contributed to human brain evolution.	Autism spectrum disorder/knockdown
GSE74270	RNA sequencing of Formalin-Fixed, Paraffin-Embedded Specimens for Gene Expression Quantification and Data Mining	We compared the RNAseq data consistency between Ribo-Zero and RNase H kits	NA
GSE52633	MicroRNA Marker Based Prognostication of Oral Squamous Cell Carcinoma	The aim of our study was to discover a miR marker panel prognostic of 5-year survival in OSCC patients that may be utilized in parallel with the current clinical covariates. We assessed differential expression of miRNAs genome-wide via deep sequencing in 20 tumor tissue samples. We also attempted to identify deregulated miR expression signatures that may serve as the prognostic marker of cancer survival. Selected miR marker-based panel then may serve as a guide for selection of appropriate follow-up chemo/radiation treatment, significantly improving the clinical management of OSCC and the overall survival rate.	Cancer
GSE68452	Role of cervicovaginal microbiota in genital inflammation	We performed gene expression analysis using the SCRB-Seq method from cervical and peripheral blood antigen presenting cells that were collected from women with different cervicovaginal bacterial community types.	NA
GSE62974	RNA sequencing (RNA-SEQ) of EPAS1 knockdown by siRNA in endothelial cells	Purpose: By integrating DNA methylation and gene expression of COPD lung tissues, we identified EPAS1 as a key regulator whose downstream genes significantly overlapped with multiple genes sets associated with COPD disease severity. EPAS1 is distinct in comparison with other key regulators in terms of methylation profiles and downstream target genes. Genes predicted to be regulated by EPAS1 were enriched for biological processes including signaling, cell communications, and system developement. As EPAS1 downstream genes were significantly enriched for hypoxia responsive genes in endothelial cells, we tested EPAS1 function in human and mouse endothelial cells HUVEC and C166. EPAS1 knockdown by siRNA in endothelial cells impacted genes that significantly overlapped with EPAS1 downstream genes in lung tissue including hypoxia responsive genes.  Methods: The cell lines of HUVEC (Lonza, MD, USA) and C166 (American Type Culture Collection, VA, USA) were cultured in the appropriate media at 37°C with 5% CO2. The cells were transfected with EPAS1 siRNA and non-targeting negative control siRNA (Life Technologies, CA, USA) using Lipofectamine RNAiMAX as recommended transfection protocols by the manufacturer. After the treatments with 5nM Silencer® Select siRNA (s4700 for EPAS1, s65525 for Epas1; Life Technologies, USA) for 48 hours, the total RNA was purified with RNeasy Mini Kit (QIAGEN, Germany). The efficiencies of knocked down the EPAS1 expression were assessed by qPCR with 1.4% for HUVEC, 3.2% for C166. Approximately 250 ng of total RNA per sample were used for library construction by the TruSeq RNA Sample Prep Kit (Illumina) and sequenced using the Illumina HiSeq 2500 instrument with 100nt single read setting according to the manufacturer's instructions. Sequence reads were aligned to human genome assembly hg19 and mouse genome assembly mm10, respectively, using Tophat [96]. Total 23,228 human and 22,609 mouse genes were quantified using Cufflinks [96]. siRNA signatures were derived by comparing expression profiles of EPAS1 or Epas1 siRNAs with non-targeting siRNAs at paired t-test p-value cutoff 0.05 with resulting signature sizes of 2,796 and 3,730, and corresponding q-values [97] 0.11 and 0.07 for HUVEC and C166, respectively. Results: When comparing endothelial cells treated with EPAS1 siRNAs and scrambled siRNAs, we identified an EPAS1 siRNA signature consisting of 2796 and 3730 genes in human and mouse endothelial cell lines, respectively, whose expression levels significantly changed (t-test p-value<0.05), including EPAS1 itself (p-value = 0.002 and 0.02) and the EPAS1 downstream target gene VEGFA (p-value = 0.03 and 0.01). The EPAS1 siRNA signatures derived from human and mouse cell lines were highly consistent, with 695 genes in common to both signatures (p-value = 7.2x10-65). Both signatures not only significantly overlapped with EPAS1 downstream genes (p-value = 7.3x10-7 and 1.5x10-12), but also with hypoxia response genes in endothelial cells (Fisher’s Exact Test p-value = 5.8x10-8 and 1.2x10-12 in the human and mouse signatures, respectively). Moreover, the EPAS1 siRNA signatures consistently overlapped genes associated with the COPD severity phenotypes. These results together validate that EPAS1 causally regulates the downstream target genes we predicted, and that these genes in turn affect COPD development and progression.	siRNA/knockdown
GSE72460	Transcriptome of human ILC2s; primary vs IL-1b-primed	ILC2s regulate type2 immune responses and protect against helminth infection. We found that ILC2s can be expanded in the presence of a combination of cytokines IL-2 and IL-1b. To better understand the functional and phenotypic consequence of IL-1β activation of ILC2s, we utilized whole transcriptome sequencing (RNA-seq) of freshly isolated ILC2s and IL-1β-primed ILC2s. Differential expression analysis revealed a substantial number of genes underwent significant change between the two conditions (total 4,744 gene, FDR<0.01, Fold change >2), among which 3,871 genes were upregulated in IL-1β –primed ILC2s.	NA
GSE75146	Nudt3 is a mRNA Decapping Enzyme That Modulates Cell Migration	The Dcp2 and Nudt16 Nudix hydrolases, are mRNA decapping enzymes that preferentially modulate stability of a subset of mRNAs.  Here we report Nudt3 is a third Nudix protein that possess mRNA decapping activity in cells and is a modulator of cell migration in MCF-7 breast cancer cells.  Genome-wide analysis of Nudt3 compromised cells identified increases in mRNAs involved in cell motility including integrin β6, lipocalin-2 and fibronectin.  The increase in mRNA levels was dependent on Nudt3 decapping activity where integrin β6 and lipocalin-2 were modulated directly through mRNA stability, while fibronectin was indirectly controlled.  Moreover, increased cell migration observed in Nudt3 depleted cells was mediated through the extracellular integrin β6 and fibronectin protein nexus.  We conclude, Nudt3 is an mRNA decapping enzyme that orchestrates expression of a subset of mRNAs to modulate cell migration and further substantiates the existence of multiple decapping enzymes functioning in distinct cellular pathways in mammals.	Breast cancer/Cancer/pathway
GSE66556	Mitochondrial phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (PCK2) regulates metabolic adaptation and glucose-independent tumor cell growth	Cancer cells must adapt metabolically to survive and proliferate when nutrients are limiting. Here we used combined transcriptional-metabolomic network analysis to identify metabolic pathways that support glucose-independent tumor cell growth. We found that glucose deprivation stimulated the re-wiring of the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle and co-opting early steps of gluconeogenesis to promote cell proliferation under low glucose. Glucose limitation promoted the production of phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP) from glutamine, which was used to fuel biosynthetic pathways normally sustained by glucose, including serine and purine biosynthesis. Mitochondrial PEP-carboxykinase (PCK2) was required for this glutamine-dependent metabolic reprogramming. PCK2 expression was dependent on the hypoxia-inducible factors (HIFs), and required to maintain tumor cell proliferation under limiting glucose availability. Elevated PCK2 expression is observed in several human tumor types, and enriched in tumor tissue from non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients. Our results define a novel role for PCK2 in cancer cell metabolic reprogramming that promotes glucose-independent cell growth and metabolic stress resistance in human tumors.	Cancer/Lung cancer/Non-small cell lung cancer/pathway
GSE86202	Analyzing the interactions of mRNAs, miRNAs, lncRNAs and circRNAs to predict competing endogenous RNA networks in glioblastoma	Cross-talk between competitive endogenous RNAs (ceRNAs) may play a critical role in revealing potential mechanisms of tumor development and physiology. Glioblastoma is the most common type of malignant primary brain tumor, and the mechanisms of tumor genesis and development in glioblastoma are unclear. Here, to investigate the role of non-coding RNAs and the ceRNA network in glioblastoma, we performed paired-end RNA sequencing and microarray analyses to obtain the expression profiles of mRNAs, lncRNAs circRNAs and miRNAs. We identified that the expression of 501 lncRNAs, 1789 mRNAs, 2038 circRNAs and 143 miRNAs were often altered between glioblastoma and matched normal brain tissue. Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analyses were performed on these differentially expressed mRNAs and miRNA-mediated target genes of lncRNAs and circRNAs. Furthermore, we used a multi-step computational framework and several bioinformatics methods to construct a ceRNA network combining mRNAs, miRNAs, lncRNAs and circRNA, based on co-expression analysis between the differentially expressed RNAs. We identified that plenty of lncRNAs, CircRNAs and their downstream target genes in the ceRNA network are related to glutamatergic synapse, suggesting that glutamate metabolism is involved in glioma biological functions. Our results will accelerate the understanding of tumorigenesis, cancer progression and even therapeutic targeting in glioblastoma. We hope to inspire researchers to study the role of non-coding RNAs in glioblastoma.	Cancer/Glioma/pathway
GSE68919	Tumor exosome integrins determine organotropic metastasis	Stephen Paget first proposed, in 1889, that organ distribution of metastases is a non-random event, yet metastatic organotropism remains one of the greatest mysteries in cancer biology. Here, we demonstrate that exosomes released by lung-, liver- and brain-tropic tumor cells fuse preferentially with resident cells at their predicted destination, such as fibroblasts and epithelial cells in the lung, Kupffer cells in the liver, and endothelial cells in the brain. We found that exosome homing to organ-specific cell types prepares the pre-metastatic niche and that treatment with exosomes derived from lung tropic models can redirect metastasis to the lung. Proteomic profiling of exosomes revealed distinct integrin expression patterns associated with each organ-specific metastasis. Whereas exosomal integrins α6β4 and α6β1 were associated with lung metastasis, exosomal integrins αvβ5 and αvβ3 were linked with liver and brain metastases, respectively. Targeting α6β4 and αvβ5 integrins decreased exosome uptake and metastasis in the lung and liver, respectively. Importantly, we demonstrate that exosome uptake activates a cell-specific subset of S100 family genes, known to support cell migration and niche formation. Finally, our clinical data indicate that integrin-expression profiles in circulating plasma exosomes from cancer patients could be used to predict organ-specific metastasis.	Cancer
GSE77682	RNA-seq of human fibroblasts after irradiation	Comparing gene expression level by Illumina sequencing of fibroblasts after irradiation  Jena Centre for Systems Biology of Ageing - JenAge (www.jenage.de)	NA
GSE77072	Spliced synthetic genes as internal controls in RNA sequencing experiments.	RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) can be used to assemble spliced isoforms, quantify expressed genes and provide a global profile of the transcriptome. However, the size and diversity of the transcriptome, the wide dynamic range in gene expression and inherent technical biases confound RNA-seq analysis. We have developed a set of spike-in RNA standards, termed ‘sequins’ (sequencing spike-ins), that represent full-length spliced mRNA isoforms. Sequins have an entirely artificial sequence with no homology to natural reference genomes, but align to gene loci encoded on an artificial in silico chromosome. The combination of multiple sequins across a range of concentrations emulates alternative splicing and differential gene expression, and provides scaling factors for normalization between samples. We demonstrate the use of sequins in RNA-seq experiments to measure sample-specific biases and determine the limits of reliable transcript assembly and quantification in accompanying human RNA samples. In addition, we have designed a complementary set of sequins that represent fusion genes arising from rearrangements of the in silico chromosome to aid in cancer diagnosis. RNA sequins provide a qualitative and quantitative reference with which to navigate the complexity of the human transcriptome.	Cancer
GSE65107	Diarrhea in lymphocytic colitis: ERK1/2-dependent ENaC dysregulation and claudin-4-, -5- and -8-related barrier defects	Background: Lymphocytic colitis (LC) causes watery diarrhea. This study aimed to identify the inherent pathomechanisms of epithelial transport and barrier dysfunction and regulatory inputs. Methods: 8 (4 LC samples and 4 unrelated control samples) biopsies of fresh sigmoid colon were analysed by paired end sequencing (Illumina High Seq 2500) Conclusions: ENaC-mediated Na+ malabsorption via ERK1/2 and epithelial barrier dysfunction from tight junction downregulation through claudin-4, -5, and -8 are mechanisms causing malabsorptive and leak flux diarrhea in LC resulting from the key effector cytokines TNFa and INFg.	NA
GSE69618	An orthologous epigenetic gene expression signature derived from differentiating embryonic stem cells identifies regulators of cardiogenesis	We report a time course of RNA-seq data from wild-type embryonic stem cells and embryonic stem cells in which the cardiogenic transcription factors ZNF503, ZEB2 and NKX2-5 are depleted with shRNAs differentiating along the cardiac lineage.	NA
GSE63807	Transcriptome of Stabilin-1 siRNA transfected human monocytes	Stabilin-1/CLEVER-1 is a multidomain protein present in lymphatic and vascular endothelial cells and in M2 immunosuppressive macrophages. Stabilin-1 functions in scavenging, endocytosis and leukocyte adhesion to and transmigration through the endothelial cells. We have analyzed the putative functions of Stabilin-1 in blood monocytes and found that in healthy individuals 60-80% of both CD14+CD16- and CD14+C16+ monocytes, but not CD14dimCD16+ monocytes, expressed Stabilin-1 on the surface. Microarray and RNAseq analysis was performed to get more insight into the effect of Stabilin-1 expression on human monocytes transcriptome.	siRNA
GSE71560	Prolyl hydroxylation regulates protein degradation, synthesis, and splicing in human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes	In this study we report the gene expression profile and MISO analysis for alternative splicing events such as exon skipping in iPSC-derived cardiomyocytes which were treated with a drug  inhibiting α-ketoglutarate-dependent hydroxylases (dimethyloxalylglycine) and compared to vehicle control. α-ketoglutarate-dependent hydroxylase inhibition plays a central role in cardiac hypoxia and the goal of this study was to identify new pathways in hypoxia beyond HIF-1α.	pathway
GSE67250	Integration of genome-wide DNA methylome and transcriptome of human intestinal fibroblasts reveals novel candidate gene signatures in Crohn’s disease-associated fibrosis	Tissue fibrosis is a serious complication of Crohn’s disease (CD) as well as of a variety of other complex, chronic pathologies. Understanding the underlying pathophysiology of tissue fibrosis is crucial for the development of tissue-specific prevention and interventional treatment strategies. To identify molecular states specific to fibrotic disease, we employed deep sequencing to define the genome-wide DNA methylome and the whole transcriptome of purified human intestinal fibrotic fibroblasts (HIFs) isolated from the colon of patients with fibrotic CD. Integration of this information, via computational tools, identified candidate molecular interactions that could lead to fibrosis pathology. Our definition of a genome-wide fibrosis-specific DNA methylome provides a new paradigm for understanding mechanisms of pathological gene expression that lead to intestinal fibrosis and may have relevance to fibrogenesis in other organs.	NA
GSE78506	24hr CA treatment vs. DMSO in HCT116 cells (from 'Identification of CDK8 and CDK19 substrates in human cells using cortistatin A and quantitative phosphoproteomics')	Cortistatin A (CA) is a highly selective inhibitor of the Mediator kinases CDK8 and CDK19. Using CA, we report here the first large-scale identification of Mediator kinase substrates in human cells (HCT116).  Among over 16,000 quantified phosphosites, we identified 78 high-confidence Mediator kinase targets within 64 proteins, including DNA-binding transcription factors and proteins associated with chromatin, DNA repair, and RNA polymerase II.  Although RNA-Seq data correlated with Mediator kinase targets, CA effects on gene expression were limited and distinct from CDK8 or CDK19 knockdown.  Quantitative proteome analyses, which tracked about 7,000 proteins across six time points (0 – 24h), revealed that CA selectively affected pathways implicated in inflammation, growth, and metabolic regulation; contrary to expectations, increased turnover of Mediator kinase targets was not generally observed.  Collectively, these data support Mediator kinases as regulators of chromatin and RNA polymerase II activity and suggest cellular roles beyond transcription, including metabolism and DNA repair.	knockdown/pathway
GSE75215	RNA deep sequencing to compare genome-wide differences between PRMT5/knockdown and control AML cells	We report the pro-leukemic activities of PRMT5 in AML partly via modulating the transcription of key genes. The goal of this experiment is to confirm the changes observed in expression of genes targeted by PRMT5 activities. RNA Deep sequencing was employed to validate and reproduce the changes measured by quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT–PCR) techniques.	knockdown
GSE83415	CD4+ T Cells Gene Expression-Based Biomarkers in Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis (JIA)	Aim: To discovery biomarkers in JIA base on gene expression from RNA sequencing on CD4+ T Cells Method: Paired-end Ilumina sequencing to capture gene expression of CD4+ T cells from JIA individuals with active disease and patients in clinical remission on medication.	NA
GSE64413	HITS-CLIP analysis uncovers a link between the Kaposi's sarcoma associated herpesvirus ORF57 protein and host pre-mRNA metabolism	The Kaposi's sarcoma associated herpesvirus (KSHV) is an oncogenic virus that causes Kaposi's sarcoma, primary effusion lymphoma (PEL), and some forms of multicentric Castleman's disease. The KSHV ORF57 protein is a conserved posttranscriptional regulator of gene expression that is essential for virus replication. ORF57 is multifunctional, but most of its activities are directly linked to its ability to bind RNA. We globally identified virus and host RNAs bound by ORF57 during lytic reactivation in PEL cells using high-throughput sequencing of RNA isolated by crosslinking immunoprecipitation (HITS-CLIP). As expected, ORF57-bound RNA fragments mapped throughout the KSHV genome, including the known ORF57 ligand PAN RNA. In agreement with previously published ChIP results, we observed that ORF57 bound RNAs near the oriLyt regions of the genome. Examination of the host RNA fragments revealed that a subset of the ORF57-bound RNAs was derived from transcript 5´ ends. The position of these 5´-bound fragments correlated closely with the 5´-most exonintron junction of the pre-mRNA. We selected four candidates (BTG1, EGR1, ZFP36, and TNFSF9) and analyzed their pre-mRNA and mRNA levels during lytic phase. Analysis of both steady-state and newly made RNAs revealed that these candidate ORF57-bound pre-mRNAs persisted for longer periods of time throughout infection than control RNAs, consistent with a role for ORF57 in pre-mRNA metabolism. In addition, exogenous expression of ORF57 was sufficient to increase the pre-mRNA levels and, in one case, the mRNA levels of the putative ORF57 targets. These results demonstrate that ORF57 interacts with specific host pre-mRNAs during lytic reactivation and alters their processing, likely by stabilizing pre-mRNAs. These data suggest that ORF57 is involved in modulating host gene expression in addition to KSHV gene expression during lytic reactivation.	NA
GSE66173	Genetic disruption of COX-1 inhibits multiple oncogenic pathways	We performed RNA sequencing in isogenic models of COX-1 proficient (OV3/SCR) and COX-1 deficient (OV3/COX1KD) OVCAR-3 ovarian cancer cells. COX-1 knockdown was associated with a coordinated anti-oncogenic phenotype, with growth, angiogenesis, migration/invasion, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition among the pathways down-regulated.	pathway
GSE73893	Cross-talk between PRMT1-mediated methylation and ubiquitylation on RBM15 controls RNA splicing	RBM15, an RNA binding protein, determines cell-fate specification of many tissues including blood. We demonstrate that RBM15 is methylated by protein arginine methyltransferase 1 (PRMT1) at residue R578 leading to its degradation via ubiquitylation by an E3 ligase (CNOT4). Overexpression of PRMT1 in acute megakaryocytic leukemia cell lines blocks megakaryocyte terminal differentiation by downregulation of RBM15 protein level. Restoring RBM15 protein level rescues megakaryocyte terminal differentiation blocked by PRMT1 overexpression. At the molecular level, RBM15 binds to pre-mRNA intronic regions of genes important for megakaryopoiesis such as GATA1, RUNX1, TAL1 and c-MPL. Furthermore, preferential binding of RBM15 to specific intronic regions recruits the splicing factor SF3B1 to the same sites for alternative splicing. Therefore, PRMT1 regulates alternative RNA splicing via reducing RBM15 protein concentration. Targeting PRMT1 may be a curative therapy to restore megakaryocyte differentiation for acute megakaryocytic leukemia.	NA
GSE63265	Combinatorial targeting of nuclear export and translation of RNA inhibits aggressive B-cell lymphoma	Aggressive double and triple hit (DH/TH) DLBCL feature activation of Hsp90 stress pathways.  Herein, we show that Hsp90 controls post-transcriptional dynamics of key mRNA species including those encoding BCL6, MYC and BCL2. Using a proteomics approach, we found that Hsp90 binds to and maintains activity of eIF4E (eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E). EIF4E drives nuclear export and translation of BCL6, MYC and BCL2 mRNA. eIF4E RIP-sequencing in DLBCL suggests that nuclear eIF4E controls an extended program that includes BCR signaling, cellular metabolism and epigenetic regulation. Accordingly, eIF4E was required for survival of DLBCL including the most aggressive subtypes DH/TH lymphomas. Indeed, eIF4E inhibition induces tumor regression in cell line and patient-derived tumorgrafts of TH-DLBCL, even in the presence of elevated Hsp90 activity. Targeting Hsp90 is typically limited by counter-regulatory elevation of Hsp70B, which induces resistance to Hsp90 inhibitors. Surprisingly, we identify Hsp70 mRNA as an eIF4E target. In this way, eIF4E inhibition can overcome drug resistance to Hsp90 inhibitors. Accordingly, rational combinatorial inhibition of eIF4E and Hsp90 inhibitors resulted in cooperative anti-lymphoma activity in DH/TH DLBCL in vitro and in vivo.	pathway
GSE72268	Reprogramming postnatal human epidermal keratinocytes toward functional neural crest fates	During development, neural crest cells are induced by signaling events at the neural plate border of all vertebrate embryos.  Initially arising within the central nervous system, NC cells subsequently undergo an epithelial to mesenchymal transition to migrate into the periphery, where they differentiate into diverse cell types. Here we provide evidence that postnatal human epidermal keratinocytes, in response to FGF2 and IGF1 signals, can be reprogrammed toward a neural crest fate.  Genome-wide transcriptome analyses show that keratinocyte-derived NC cells are similar to those derived from human embryonic stem cells.  Moreover, they give rise in vitro and in vivo to neural crest derivatives such as peripheral neurons, melanocytes, Schwann cells and mesenchymal cells (osteocytes, chondrocytes, adipocytes and smooth muscle). By demonstrating that human KRT14+ keratinocytes can form neural crest cells, even from clones of single cells, our results have important implications in stem cell biology and regenerative medicine.	NA
GSE75291	RNA-seq analysis upon ARID1B overexpression	We transduced either an empty vector or ARID1B cDNA in IMR90 cells. Cells were selected with puromycin and 6 days after the infection we collected the RNA. ARID1B is a member of the SWI/SNF chromatin-remodeling complex. Our previous experiments showed that knockdown of ARID1B allows cells to bypass cellular senescence. By performing RNA-seq we have shown that ARID1B expression can induce a set of genes involved in the senescence response.	knockdown
GSE77513	Capturing the biology of mild versus severe disease in a pluripotent stem cell-based model of Familial Dysautonomia	Familial Dysautonomia is a genetic disease, however patietns with the same genotype present with mild or severe forms of the disease. We used the pluripotent stem cell technology to capture the differences in disease severity in vitro during neurodevelopment as well as during maintanance of the cells, showing developmental and degenerative phenotypes. RNA seq. analysis of the groups confirmed those diffferences.	NA
GSE89057	RNA-seq of SOX5 overexpressing primary human neuronal progenitors	Purpose: The goal of this study was to assess gene expression changes in neurons overexpressing SOX5 using human primary neuronal culture system. Methods: 6 samples each from control GFP and SOX5 overexpressing neurons were used to isolate total RNA using miRNeasy kit, Qiagen.  We performed rRNA-depleted 69bp paired end stranded RNA-seq on neurons overexpressing either GFP or SOX5 tagged with GFP. Overexpression of SOX5 in neurons validated that a significant proportion of Attenuated cortical patterning (ACP) genes are regulated by SOX5, and that predicted SOX5 targets exhibit a net downregulation, consist with its repressive function. This supports the prediction that attenuated patterning of SOX5 between cortical regions contributes to direct alterations in SOX5 targets and likely to indirect alterations in SOX5 non-targets in the ACP set. delpleted 69 bp stranded RNA-seq in	NA
GSE89714	Differential gene expressions in the heart of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy patients	Differential gene expressions were constructed through expression profiling of a total of 20,127 genes in the heart tissue of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy patients, then 1799 significant differential genes were filtered based on the criteria (p<0.05 and fold change > 1.5), respectively.	Cardiomyopathy
GSE89879	Transcriptome profiling (RNA-seq) of CREBBP+/+ and CREBBP+/- clones of U2932 DLBCL cell line	Purpose: Diffuse large B cell lymphomas (DLBCL) frequently harbor mutations in the histone acetyltransferase CREBBP, however their functional contribution to lymphomagenesis remains largely unknown. This study aims at elucidating and characterizing the molecular pathways affected by mutations in CREBBP. Methods: U2932, a DLBCL cell line that has wild type expression of CREBBP was manipulated by CRISPR-Cas9 strategy to mutate one allele of CREBBP and examine the pathways affected. RNA was isolated using the NucleoSping RNA Kit (Macherey-Nagel) from five wild type (CREBBP+/+) and five heterozygous clones (CREBBP+/-). RNA quality was assessed by Bioanalyzer 2100 followed by library preparation using the TruSeq RNA Sample Prep Kit v4 (Illumina). Sequencing was subsequently performed on the Illumina HiSeq 2500 instrument. RNA-seq reads were quality-checked with fastqc, which computes various quality metrics for the raw reads. RNA-seq reads were mapped to the GRCh38 reference human genome using STAR and reads were counted according to Ensembl gene annotation using the featureCounts function in the Rsubread Bioconductor package. Statistical analysis of differential expression was conducted with the DESeq2 package.	pathway
GSE90013	HBEC-shp53-PCHD7	We studied the effects of ectopic expression of Protocadherin 7 (PCDH7) on Human Bronchial Epithelial Cells (HBECs).	NA
GSE86654	Identifying markers predicting successful graft outcome for clinical translation of hESC-based cell therapy for Parkinson’s disease	Stem cell treatments for neurodegenerative diseases are expected to reach clinical  trials soon. Most of the approaches currently under development involve  transplantation of immature progenitors that subsequently undergo phenotypic and  functional maturation in vivo, and predicting the long term graft outcome already at the  progenitor stage remains a challenge. Here, we took an unbiased approach to identify  predictive markers expressed in dopamine neuron progenitors that correlate with graft  outcome in an animal model of Parkinson's disease through gene expression analysis  of >30 batches of grafted hESC-derived progenitors. We found that many of the  commonly-used markers did not accurately predict in vivo subtype-specific maturation.  Instead, we identified a specific set of markers associated with the caudal midbrain that  correlate with high dopaminergic yield after transplantation in vivo. Using these  markers, we developed a GMP differentiation protocol for highly efficient and  reproducible production of transplantable dopamine progenitors from hESCs.	Parkinson’s disease/Parkinson
GSE82237	The DPYSL2 gene connects mTOR and schizophrenia	We report a transcriptome comparison of HEK293 cells modified at the DPYSL2 gene promoter dinucleotide repeat (chr8:26,435,510-26,435,534) by CRISPR/Cas9 to change from the common 11 repeats to the more rare 13 repeats	Schizophrenia
GSE69511	Transcriptome analysis of Jurkat T-ALL clones from control and CBAP-knockdown/knockout sets	We sequenced whole-genome mRNA from 8 different single stable clones of Jurkat cells modified with CBAP gene expression usng shRNA knockdown or CRISPR/Cas9-mediated knockout and their controls.	knockout/knockdown
GSE59598	mRNA expression in human DAOY cells	We generate ZNF423 knockdown and control DAOY cells with lentivirus that co-expressed the fluorescent protein mCherry. We performed whole genome RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) of three batched of cultured ZNF423 KD or control KD cells. The sequence reads were analyzed by Homer followed by edgeR. The analyzed RNA-seq results showed  differential expression profile including 12 known cilia genes, and 3 of these were validated with qRT-PCR on mouse granule cell precursors. This study proved data how ZNF423 linked to cilia complexes.	knockdown
GSE80095	Transcriptome Profiling of Human Primary Monocytes	We profiled the gene expression pattern of human primary monocyte, an essential component of the innate immune system, from healthy subjects using RNA-Seq analysis 	NA
GSE75524	Activation of the IGF1 pathway mediates changes in cellular contractility and motility in single-suture craniosynostosis	We examined the effect pg IGF1 actibation on cellular contractility and migration in SSC osteoblast cells. Based on microarray levels of IGF1 expression, we selected fifteen cases and nine controls spanning from the highest IGF1 expression to the lowest in cases and controls. Subsequently, the pattern of IGF1 expressions in these cells was assessed using high throughput RNA sequencing.	Craniosynostosis/pathway
GSE53066	Anaylsis of the effect of down-regulation of the EWS-FLI1 fusion protein in Ewing Sarcoma cells by RNA-seq.	We generated A673 Ewing Sarcoma cell lines which stably express shRNA targeting the EWS-FLI1 fuison protein or Luciferase as a control to study the effect of EWS-FLI1 on the transcriptome. The vectors used to generate the cell lines were a gift from Stephen Lessnick and were first published in PMID 16697960	NA
GSE89729	Quantitative Analysis of PPARD Transcriptomes  in Colon Cancer Cells by Next Generation Sequencing (NGS)	Purpose: NGS has revolutionized systems-based analysis of cell signaling pathways. The goal of this study is to determine the effects of PPARD in colon cancer cell transcriptomes in relation to the metastatic potential. Methods: NGS-derived colon cancer cell mRNA transcriptome profiles of HCT116 WT (HCT116) and HCT116 with genetic PPARD-knockout (KO1) cells were generated by deep sequencing, in quadruplicate, using Illumina  HiSeq2000 .The transcriptomes of HCT116 and KO1 cells will be compared to determine the differentially expressed genes between HCT116  and KO1 cells. Differentially expressed genes will be examined in relation to the metastatic potential  and  validated by qRT-PCR. Results: Using an optimized data analysis workflow Tophat2, we mapped about 25 million sequence reads per sample to the human genome. Out of 22229 genes, we identified 12118 transcripts  with >50 reads in at least one sample of HCT116 and KO1 cells with edgeR package and identified 6668 differentailly expressed genes with FDR 0.001 and P value cutoff  0.0022 using GLM tests fitted with BUM model. We further fltered the genes with both p-value and fold change and identified 416 genes  with FDR 0.001 and fold change larger than 2.  Among the differentially expressed genes, 311 were downregulated and 105 were upregulated in the KO1 cells compared with the WT cells. Twenty-three of the differentially expressed genes had significant association (i.e., a tendency towards co-occurrence) with PPARD expression (P < 0.05; log odds ratio > 1.5) in the TCGA colorectal adenocarcinoma database. Of these 23 genes, 7 were linked to metastasis by PubMed literature searches: GJA1, VIM, SPARC, NRG1, CXCL8 (IL-8), STC1, and  SNCG, which were validated by q-RT-PCR. Conclusions: Our study represents the detailed analysis of PPARD transcriptomes in colon cancer cells, generated by mRNA-seq technology. Our results  show that NGS offers a comprehensive and  accurate quantitative and qualitative evaluations of mRNA contents in cells. We conclude that RNA-seq based transcriptome characterization would expedite genetic network analyses and permit the dissection of complex biologic functions.	Cancer
GSE89479	Self-organized amniogenesis by human pluripotent stem cells in a biomimetic implantation-like niche	In this work, we generated early human amnion-like tissues by culturing human pluripotent stem cells (hPSCs) in a bioengineered implantation-like niche in vitro. To explore the gene expression profile of hPSC-derived amnion-like cells (hPSC-amnion), we performed mRNA-sequencing for both undifferentiated hPSCs and hPSC-amnion. Here we show that hPSC-amnion differs from hPSCs by actively regulating a comprehensive set of transcriptional regulation network and developmental signaling pathways such as BMP-SMAD signaling.	pathway
GSE70404	Investigation about Monocytes in metastatic breast cancer patients under chemotherapy +/- Avastin	The goal of this study was to determine if blood circulating monocytes of metastatic breast cancer patient would express a different activation profile compared to healthy donors, in order to use this specific changesas biomarkers to monitor then response to therapy	Breast cancer/Cancer
GSE77649	Human blood CD1c⁺ dendritic cells encompass CD5-high and CD5-low subsets that differ significantly in phenotype, gene expression and functions	There are three major dendritic cell (DC) subsets in both human and mouse, plasmacytoid DCs (pDCs) and two types of conventional DCs (cDCs), cDC1s and cDC2s. cDC2s are important for polarizing CD4+  naive T cells into different subsets including Th1, Th2, Th17, Th22 and regulatory T cells (Tregs). In mice, cDC2s can be further divided into phenotypically and functionally distinct subgroups. However, subsets of human cDC2s have not been reported.  In the present study, we showed that human blood CD1c+ conventional DCs (cDC2s) can be further separated into two subpopulations according to their CD5 expression status. Comparative transcriptome analyses showed that the CD5high DCs expressed higher levels of cDC2-specific genes, including IRF4, which is essential for the cDC2 development and its migration to lymph nodes. In contrast, CD5low DCs preferentially expressed monocyte-related genes, including the lineage-specific transcription factor MAFB. Furthermore, compared with CD5low subpopulation, CD5high subpopulation showed stronger migration toward CCL21 and overrepresentation among migratory DCs in lymph nodes. Additionally, the CD5high DCs induced naïve T-cell proliferation more potently than the CD5low DCs. Moreover, CD5high DCs induced higher levels of IL-10-, IL-22- and IL-4-producing T-cell formation, whereas CD5low DCs induced higher levels of IFN-γ-producing T-cell formation. Thus, we show that human blood CD1c+ cDC2s encompass two subsets that differ significantly in phenotype, gene expression, and functions. We propose that these two subsets of human cDC2s could potentially play contrasting roles in immunity or tolerance.	NA
GSE78081	Immunological Imbalance in Fibrodysplasia Ossificans Progressiva Revealed by PBMC Transcriptome Analysis	In order to study the inflammation mechanism of FOP patients’ peripheral blood system, we profiled the transcriptome of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from 3 FOP patients as well as 3 healthy people. After comparing the PBMC transcriptomes between FOP patients and healthy control, we identified 335 differentially expressed genes from FOP patients, including 135 significantly up-regulated and 200 significantly down-regulated genes. Using functional predictive analysis, we discovered these genes are enriched in GO terms such as proliferation, differentiation of T cells and anti-apoptotic process. By cross comparison with previous published data, we found 21 differentially expressed genes overlapped with SMAD signaling target genes.Our observations indicate the role of adaptive immune system activation during the pathology of abnormal muscular ossification. Our study further highlights the significance of anti-inflammatory therapy in the treatment of FOP and provide novel molecular markers for the clinical diagnosis of FOP disease.	NA
GSE79613	iPSCs Reveal Protective Modifiers of the BMPR2 mutation in Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension	The goal of this study is to compare transcriptome profiling (RNA-seq) in controls, unaffected BMPR2 mutation carriers and affected familial pulmonary arterial hypertension patients, to elucidate a protective feature in iPS derived endothelial cells from the mutation carriers.	NA
GSE80237	RNA-seq analysis reveals profound changes in transcript profiles between siCon- and siH19-transfected EVT cells	We used high throughput sequencing to analyze the transcriptional profiling of EVT. By comparing the transcriptional profiling of EVT with or without H19 knockdown, numerous genes showed significantly altered expression as a result of H19 repression.	knockdown
GSE81236	MicroRNA-28 replacement for non-Hodgkin lymphoma therapy	Our studies identify the role of mIR-28 in germinal center response and its therapeutic potential for the treatment of non-Hodgkin lymphomas	NA
GSE83717	Identification and validation of differentially expressed transcripts by RNA-Sequencing of formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded (FFPE) lung tissue from patients with Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis	BACKGROUND: Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis (IPF) is a lethal lung disease of unknown etiology. A major limitation in transcriptomic profiling of lung tissue in IPF has been a dependence on snap-frozen fresh tissues (FF). In this project we sought to determine whether RNA-Seq could be used to identify IPF expression profiles from archived Formalin-Fixed Paraffin-Embedded (FFPE) lung fibrotic tissue. RESULTS: We isolated total RNA from 7 IPF and 5 control FFPE lung tissues (median archived time 6 years) and performed 50 bp paired-end sequencing on Illumina 2000 HiSeq. TopHat2 was used to map sequencing reads to the human genome. On average ~62 million reads (53.4% of ~116 million reads) were mapped per sample. Cufflinks calculated FPKM values (Fragments per Kilobase of exon per Million) and identified differentially expressed genes between the IPF and control samples. Here we show that RNA-Seq data obtained from FFPE lung tissues is comparable to microarray data obtained from IPF fresh frozen tissues. Pathway enrichment and network analysis confirmed numerous IPF relevant genes and pathways. CONCLUSION: Our results demonstrate that transcriptomic analysis of RNA obtained from archived FFPE lung tissues is feasible. Therefore FFPE IPF lungs can be used as a valid and reliable source for transcriptomic profiling in IPF	Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis
GSE84237	Integrated Systems Biology Analysis of KSHV Latent Infection Reveals Viral Induction and Reliance on Peroxisome Mediated Lipid Metabolism	Kaposi’s Sarcoma herpesvirus (KSHV), an oncogenic virus, modulates host cell signaling and metabolism to maintain latent infection. To unravel the underlying cellular mechanisms modulated by KSHV, we identified changes in the host proteome, phosphoproteome and transcriptome landscape upon KSHV infection of endothelial cells. A Steiner Forest algorithm was used to integrate proteomic, phosphoproteomic and transcriptomic data with transcriptome based predicted transcription factor activity to identify cellular networks altered by latent KSHV.	NA
GSE84829	Identification of mesothelial-to-mesenchymal gene signature in ascitic fluid-isolated mesothelial cells through RNA-sequencing	RNA-sequencing analysis was carried out on ascetic fluid-isolated mesothelial cells from ovarian cancer patients compared to control human peritoneal mesothelial cells to identify a mesothelial-mesenchymal gene signature.	Cancer
GSE85271	KANK1 inhibits cell growth by inducing apoptosis though regulating CXXC5 in human malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors	The purpose of this study is to identify expression differences between untreated and Doxycycline treated human malignant peripheral nerve sheathing tumors (MPNST) cell lines. We sequenced mRNA from 6 lentiviral infected MPNST human stable cell lines(STS26T-pLIX405-KANK1 using Illumina Hiseq 2500 sequencing platform. Three control samples are untreated stable cells and three samples are Doxycycline treated (1 ug/ml).	NA
GSE86874	KDM1A confers invasive and metastatic attributes in lung adenocarcinoma by modulating a non-canonical Integrin ß3-KRAS signaling pathway	KRAS mutations occur in approximately 25% of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). They account for the therapy resistance to EGFR inhibitors and are suggested to be difficult to target by specific drugs. Therefore, new therapies for KRAS mutant NSCLC are urgently needed. The histone H3K4 and H3K9 di/mono-demethylase KDM1A is a key epigenetic writer, aberrantly upregulated in many cancer types, including NSCLC. In order to understand the functional role of KDM1A in the progression of lung adenocarcinoma, KDM1A expression profiles were analysed in tissue microarrays (TMAs) including 182 lung adenocarcinoma. KDM1A expression correlated with high grade and metastasized tumor. To investigate the impact of KDM1A in lung adenocarcinoma development, we used the KRAS mutated A549 cell line to establish a shRNA-mediated stable KDM1A knockdown cell clone. Unexpectedly, KDM1A knockdown had only a slight effect on retardation of cell growth. However, cell invasion and self-renewal capability was significantly decreased by KDM1A inhibition. KDM1A knockdown in A549 cell resulted in a dramatic change in the transcriptome profile as determined by RNA-Seq. Interestingly, genes involved in the KRAS signature and lung epithelial marker genes were significantly affected upon KDM1A knockdown. Ingenuity pathway analysis also suggested that the alternative integrin β3-KRAS signaling axis, which is involved in stem cell like properties, is abrogated upon KDM1A knockdown. Indeed, Integrin β3 and its non-canonical ligand galectin-3 were strongly downregulated and their downstream NF-κB activity was decreased upon KDM1A knockdown. Finally, correlation of KDM1A to the Integrin β3 level was validated in TMAs.	pathway
GSE87626	Interaction between mitoNEET and NAF-1 in cancer cells	The NEET proteins mitoNEET (mNT) and nutrient-deprivation autophagy factor-1 (NAF-1) are required for cancer cell proliferation and resistance to oxidative stress. MitoNEET and NAF-1 are also implicated in a number of other human pathologies including diabetes, neurodegeneration and heart disease, as well as in development, differentiation and aging. Previous studies suggested that mNT and NAF-1 could function in the same pathway in cancer cells, preventing the over-accumulation of iron and reactive oxygen species (ROS) in mitochondria. Nevertheless, it is unknown whether these two proteins interact in cells, and how they mediate their function. Here we demonstrate, using yeast two-hybrid, in vivo bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC), direct coupling analysis (DCA), RNA- sequencing, ROS and iron imaging, and single and double shRNA lines with suppressed  mNT, NAF-1 and mNT/NAF-1 expression, that mNT and NAF-1 interact in cancer cells and function in the same cellular pathway. We further show using an in vitro cluster transfer assay that mNT can transfer its clusters to NAF-1. Our study suggests that mNT and NAF-1 could function as part of an iron-sulfur (2Fe-2S) cluster relay to maintain the levels of iron and Fe-S clusters under control in the mitochondria of cancer cells, thereby preventing the activation of apoptosis and/or autophagy and thus promoting rapid cellular proliferation.	Cancer
GSE88848	Appropriately Differentiated ARPE-19 Cells Regain a Native Phenotype and Similar Gene Expression Profile	The retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cell line ARPE-19 provides a widely-used alternative to native RPE. However, retention of the native RPE phenotype becomes problematic after multiple passages. We wished to determine if suitable culture conditions and differentiation could restore RPE-appropriate gene expression to ARPE-19. ARPE-19 cells at passages p9 to p12, grown in DMEM containing high glucose and pyruvate with 1% fetal bovine serum, were differentiated for up to 4 months. Using RNA-Seq, we compared the transcriptome of ARPE-19 cells kept in long-term culture with those cultured for 4 days. The 4 month cells developed the classic native RPE phenotype with heavy pigmentation. RNA-Seq analysis provided a comprehensive view of the relative abundance and differential expression of genes in the 4 month cells. Of the 16,757 genes with detectable signals, nearly 2435 genes were upregulated, and 931 genes were down-regulated with a fold change differences of 2 or more. Genes characteristic of RPE, including RPE65, RDH5 and RDH10, were greatly increased in ARPE-19 cells maintained at confluence for 4 months. Comparison with microarray data sets from human primary cell lines revealed important overall similarities in expression of "signature" genes. The results of this study demonstrate that ARPE-19 cells can express genes specific to native human RPE cells when appropriately cultured, and thus, can provide a relevant system to study differentiated cellular functions of RPE in vitro.	NA
GSE92293	RNA-seq in neutrophils from Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis	In this study, we explored transcriptional complexity in human neutrophils from juvenile idiopathis arthritis and healthy control. We obtained differentially expressed genes among 3 ADU (active disease, untreated), 3 ADT (active disease, treated) and 2 HC (healthy control) samples using Cuffdiff2 software.	NA
GSE92723	Transcriptome analysis for KDM6A mutated urothelial bladder carcinoma and EZH2 inhibitor treated KDM6A mutated urothelial bladder carcinoma	Purpose:  The goals of this study are to compare 1. The transcription profile in KDM6A wildtype and KDM6A mutated urothelial bladder carcinoma. 2. The transcriptional changes in KDM6A mutated urothelial bladder carcinoma upon EZH2 inhibitor treatment.	NA
GSE93292	Gene expression changes after LOC550643 silencing	Differential analysis of gene expression in HEK293T cells treated with a pool of siRNA targeting LOC550643, or non-silencing siRNA.	siRNA
GSE93395	Gene expression profile of human multiple myeloma cell line MM.1S after knockdown of KDM6B	Recent studies have delineated cancer type-specific roles of histone 3 lysine 27 (H3K27) demethylase KDM6B/JMJD3 depending on its H3K27 demethylase activity. Here we show that KDM6B is expressed in multiple myeloma (MM); and that shRNA-mediated knockdown and CRISPR-mediated knockout of KDM6B abrogate MM cell growth and survival. TNFα or bone marrow stromal cell culture supernatants induce KDM6B, which is blocked by IKKβ inhibitor MLN120B, suggesting KDM6B is regulated by NF-κB signaling in MM cells. RNA-sequencing and subsequent ChIP-qPCR analyses reveal that KDM6B is recruited to the loci of genes encoding components of MAPK signaling pathway including ELK1 and FOS, and upregulates these genes expression without affecting H3K27 methylation level. Overexpression of catalytically-inactive KDM6B activates expression of MAPK pathway-related genes, confirming its function independent of demethylase activity. We further demonstrate that downstream targets of KDM6B, ELK1 and FOS, confer MM cell growth. Our study therefore delineates KDM6B function that links NF-κB and MAPK signaling pathway mediating MM cell growth and survival, and validates KDM6B as a novel therapeutic target in MM. 	knockdown
GSE93124	Crizotinib v. DMSO in SW480 cells	SW480 cells were treated with 2uM crizotinib for 72h (versus DMSO)	NA
GSE94019	Transcriptomic Analysis of Endothelial Cells from Fibrovascular Membranes in Proliferative Diabetic Retinopathy	Purpose: Identification of RUNX1 via next-generation sequencing (NGS) of fibrovascular membranes in patients with proliferative diabetic retinopathy. Methods: Transcriptomic analysis with Illumina HiSeq2000 of fibrovascular membrane and control retina CD31+ samples. The sequence reads were analyzed with ANOVA (ANOVA) and targets with significance (fold change > +/-1.5 and p-value < 0.05) were selected for with Cufflinks, DeSeq2, Partek E/M, and EdgeR. qRT–PCR validation was performed using SYBR Green assays along with Western blots, siRNA, and MUSE proliferation assays. Results: Using an optimized data analysis workflow, we mapped sequence reads per sample to the human genome (hg19) and identified genes that were statistically significant in all four statistical packages. P-values ranged from 8.78E-10 to 0.05. Using this gene list for ontology, highly significant annotation clusters included inflammatory, vascular development, and cell adhesion pathways. Conclusions: Our study represents the first detailed transcriptomic analysis of CD31+ cells from fibrovascular membrane and CD31+ cells from control retinas with biologic replicates, generated by RNA-seq technology. The preferential selection of inflammatory and angiogenic pathways using this gene list is highly consistent with DR pathogenesis, which involves leaky and aberrant vessel growth.	siRNA/pathway
GSE94280	Regulation of Lipids is Central to Replicative Senescence	Cellular replicative senescence, a state of permanent cell-cycle arrest that occurs following an extended period of cell division in culture, has been linked to organismal aging, tissue repair and tumorigenesis. In this study, we comparatively investigated the global lipid profiles and mRNA content of proliferating and senescent-state BJ fibroblast cells. We found that both the expression levels of lipid-regulating genes, as well as the abundance of specific lipid families, are actively regulated. We further found that 19 polyunsaturated triacylglycerol species showed the most prominent changes during replicative senescence. We argue that diversion of polyunsaturated fatty acids to glycerolipid biosynthesis could be responsible for the accumulation of specific triacylglycerols. This, in turn, could be one of the cellular mechanisms to prevent lipotoxicity under increased oxidative stress conditions observed during replicative senescence. Collectively, our results place regulation of specific lipid species to a central role during replicative senescence.	NA
GSE94395	Targeted Apoptosis of Senescent Cells Restores Tissue Homeostasis in Response to Chemotoxicity and Aging	The accumulation of irreparable cellular damage restricts healthy lifespan after acute stress or natural aging. Senescent cells are thought to impair tissue function and their genetic clearance can successfully delay features of aging. Identifying how senescent cells avoid apoptosis would allow for the prospective design of anti-senescence compounds to address whether homeostasis can be restored. Here, we identify FOXO4 as a pivot in the maintenance of senescent cell viability. We designed a FOXO4-based peptide which selectively competes for interaction of FOXO4 with p53. In senescent cells, this results in p53 nuclear exclusion and cell-intrinsic apoptosis. Importantly, under conditions where it was well tolerated, the FOXO4 peptide restored liver function after Doxorubicin-induced chemotoxicity. Moreover, in fast aging XpdTTD/TTD, as well as in naturally aged mice the FOXO4 peptide could counteract the loss of fitness, fur density and renal function. Thus, it is possible to therapeutically target senescent cells and thereby effectively counteract senescence-associated loss of tissue homeostasis.	NA
GSE94464	Gene expression of  thyroid cancer cell lines	Purpose: The primary goal of this study was to identify gene-expression profiles of  anaplastic thyroid cancer and  to identify some novel in-frame gene fusions that could result in translated protein products affecting the development of  anaplastic thyroid cancer. Methods: RNAseq Data was processed with TCGA UNC V2 RNAseq protocol and different expressed genes were identify by using DESeq2, limma-voom, and edgeR. Potential fusion genes were identified by using SOAPfuse, Chimerascan and TopHat-Fusion. Potential fusion genes were confirmed by cDNA PCR and Sanger sequencing. Results: A total of 21 fusion genes were detected, including six predicted in-frame fusions; none were recurrent. Global gene expression analysis showed 661 genes to be differentially expressed between anaplastic thyroid cancer and papillary thyroid cancer cell lines, with pathway enrichment analyses showing downregulation of TP53-signaling as well as cell adhesion molecules in anaplastic thyroid cancer . Conclusions: Our study represents the first detailed analysis of anaplastic thyroid cancer cell lines and found several novel in-frame gene fusions that could result in translated protein products affecting the development of anaplastic thyroid cancer. These data provide novel insights into the tumorigenesis of  anaplastic thyroid cancer and may be used to identify new therapeutic targets.	Cancer/Thyroid cancer
GSE94728	pSILAC mass spectrometry reveals ZFP91 as novel IMiD dependent substrate of the CRL4CRBN ligase	Thalidomide and its derivatives lenalidomide and pomalidomide (IMiDs) are effective treatments of hematologic malignancies. It was shown that IMiDs impart gain of function properties to the CUL4-RBX1-DDB1-CRBN (CRL4CRBN) ubiquitin ligase that enable binding, ubiquitination and degradation of key therapeutic targets such as IKFZ1, IKZF3 and CSNK1A1. While these substrates have been implicated as efficacy targets in multiple myeloma (MM) and 5q deletion associated myelodysplastic syndrome (del(5q)-MDS), other targets likely exist. Using a pulse-chase SILAC mass spectrometry-based proteomics approach, we demonstrate that lenalidomide induces the ubiquitination and degradation of ZFP91. We establish that ZFP91 is a bona fide IMiD dependent CRL4CRBN substrate and further show that ZFP91 harbors a zinc finger (ZnF) motif, related to the IKZF1/3 ZnF, critical for IMiD dependent CRBN binding. These findings demonstrate that single time point pulse-chase SILAC mass spectrometry-based proteomics (pSILAC-MS) is a sensitive approach for target identification of small molecules inducing selective protein degradation.	NA
GSE94736	Global transcriptional profiling using RNA sequencing and DNA methylation patterns in highly enriched mesenchymal cells from young versus elderly women.	Purpose:  Identification of relevant genetic pathways that are altered with aging knowing that the precursors for bone-forming osteoblasts reside in the mesenchymal cell population of bone marrow. Method: harvested and characterized, without in vitro culture, mesenchymal cells form human bone marrow capable of osteogenic differentiation Results:  Identification of differentially regulated genes with aging in a highly enriched human bone marrow mesenchymal cell population. Conclusions:  we have for the first time identified age-related differential gene expression and DNA methylation patterns in a highly enriched human bone marrow mesenchymal cell populationprofiles. Our results show that NGS offers a comprehensive and more accurate quantitative and qualitative evaluation of mRNA content within a cell or tissue. We conclude that RNA-seq based transcriptome characterization would expedite genetic network analyses and permit the dissection of complex biologic functions.	pathway
GSE95059	Transcriptomic profiling of normal human cardiac fibroblast treated with halofuginone	Normal human cardiac fibroblast were treated with 200 nM halofuginone for 24 hours and the transcriptomic profile was measured by RNAseq.	NA
GSE97100	mRNAseq of Huntington's disease and control patient iPSC-derived brain microvascular endothelial cells	Purpose: The goals of this study are to compare the transcriptomic profile (mRNA-seq) of HD and control patient iPSC-derived brain microvascular endotheial cells to identify alterations in gene expression.  Methods: RNA were isolated from HD and control iPSC-derived brain microvascular endothelial cells. mRNAseq using Illumina TruSeq mRNA PolyA+ v2 lib prep and HiSeq 2500. Statistical difference in mRNA levels were calculated with subsequent GO and pathway analysis.  Results: mRNAseq and statistical analysis revealed differentially expressed genes between HD and control iPSC-derived brain microvascular endothelial cells.  Conclusions: Our study shows differentially expressed genes between HD and control iPSC-derived brain microvascular endothelial cells, and reveals gene networks that are relevant to the mechanism of HD pathogenesis.	Huntington
GSE98139	Whole blood gene expression in adolescent Chronic Fatigue Syndrom (CFS) by RNA-Seq	This study compared whole blood gene expression in CFS adolescent and healthy controls, and explored associations between gene expression and neuroendocrine markers, immune markers and clinical markers within the CFS group.	NA
GSE99596	SIRT7 Antagonizes TGF-β Signaling and Inhibits Breast Cancer Metastasis	Protein deacetylase SIRT7 is significantly downregulated in lung metastases of human patient and mouse tissues, and predicted metastasis-free survival. To explore the roles of SIRT7 in breast cancer, we analysed the gene expressions in breast cancer BT549 cells with SIRT7 knockdown or not.	Breast cancer/Cancer
GSE71876	Survival of pancreatic cancer cells lacking KRAS function	Activating mutations in the proto-oncogene KRAS are a hallmark of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC), an aggressive malignancy with few effective therapeutic options. Despite efforts to develop KRAS-targeted drugs, the absolute dependence of PDAC cells on KRAS remains incompletely understood. Here we modeled complete KRAS inhibition using CRISPR/Cas-mediated genome editing. While KRAS knockout led to decreased in vitro proliferation and impaired in vivo tumorigenic growth, KRAS was dispensable in a subset of human and mouse PDAC cells. KRAS knockout cells exhibited hyperactivation of the PI3K pathway and induced sensitivity to phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) inhibitors. Mechanistically, PI3K inhibition in KRAS knockout cells led to transient mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) blockade while impeding AKT-dependent 4EBP1 phosphorylation and cap-dependent translation. Furthermore, comparison of gene expression profiles of cells retaining or lacking KRAS revealed a novel functional role of KRAS in the suppression of metastasis-related genes. Accordingly, KRAS knockout gene expression signatures correlated with PDAC circulating tumor cell (CTC) signatures, and human PDAC tumors with gene expression patterns enriched in signatures from KRAS knockout cells were associated with worse survival in patients. Together, these data underscore the potential for resistance of PDAC to even the very best of KRAS inhibitors and suggest combination therapies with PI3K inhibitors as a viable strategy to circumvent resistance.	Cancer/Pancreatic cancer
GSE77128	EPCR Expression Defines the Most Primitive Subset of Human HSPC and Is Required for Their In Vivo Activity	Cell purification technology combined with whole transcriptome sequencing and small molecule agonist of hematopoietic stem cell self-renewal has allowed us to identify the endothelial protein c receptor protein (EPCR) as a surface maker that defines a rare subpopulation of human cells which is highly enriched for stem cell activity in vivo. EPCR-positive cells exhibit a robust multi-lineage differentiation potential and serial reconstitution in immunocompromised mice. In culture, most if not all of the HSC activity is detected in the EPCR+ subset, arguing for the stability of this marker on the surface of cultured cells, a feature not found with more recently described markers such as CD49f. Functionally EPCR is essential for human HSC activity in vivo. Cells engineered to express low EPCR expression proliferate normally in culture but lack the ability to confer long-term reconstitution. EPCR is thus a stable marker for human HSC. Its exploitation should open new possibilities in our effort to understand the molecular bases behind HSC self-renewal.	NA
GSE80819	Transcriptome analysis of ECFCs treated with GSK-343 and Panobinostat	Human endothelial colony-forming cells (ECFCs) represent one of the most promising sources of adult stem cells for vascular regeneration after ischemia. Yet, the molecular mechanism underlying the unique properties of these cells to repair damaged blood vessels remains unclear, and new strategies to improve their regenerative function are needed. Here, we demonstrate that ex vivo treatment of ECFCs with a combination of epigenetic drugs (i.e. the histone H3K27 demethylase inhibitor GSK-343 and the histone deacetylase inhibitor panobinostat) improves the migration of these cells and their capacity to form capillary-like networks while also increasing their resistance to serum starvation-induced apoptosis. Furthermore, the kinetic of blood flow recovery is significantly increased upon transplantation of drug-treated ECFCs in a pre-clinical model of hind-limb ischemia. Gene expression profiling by RNA-sequencing reveals that these effects are mediated through the simultaneous activation of several major pro-angiogenic signaling pathways including VEGFR, CXCR4, WNT, NOTCH and SHH. At the molecular level, we provide evidence that the two drugs work through complementary mechanisms that entail the resolving of bivalently marked genes characterized by the presence of both negative (H3K27me3) and positive (H3K4me3 and H3-Ac) histone modifications to create a transcriptionally permissive chromatin environment. Thus, ex vivo treatment with epigenetic drugs increases the vascular repair properties of ECFCs through transient activation of major pro-angiogenic signaling pathways.	pathway
GSE83647	Aneuploidy triggers an immune response	Aneuploidy, a state of karyotype imbalance, is a hallmark of cancer. Changes in chromosome copy number have been proposed to drive disease by modulating the dosage of cancer driver genes and by promoting cancer genome evolution. Given the potential of cells with abnormal karyotypes to become cancerous, do pathways exist that limit the prevalence of such cells? By investigating the immediate consequences of aneuploidy on cell physiology, we identified mechanisms that eliminate aneuploid cells.  We find that chromosome mis-segregation leads to replication stress, generating further genomic instability, increased karyotype complexity, and ultimately cell cycle arrest. Cells with complex karyotypes exhibit features of senescence and a pro-inflammatory response that promotes their clearance by the immune system. We propose that cells with abnormal karyotypes generate a signal for their own elimination that might well be a source of cancer cell immunosurveillance that must be overcome during malignant transformation.	Cancer/pathway
GSE86497	miR-93 Targets in Human Endothelial Cells	miR-93-5p controls endothelial glycolysis and proliferation	NA
GSE87456	Hypoxic transcriptome of SQ20B human head and neck cancer cells	We have carried out deep directional sequencing of  mRNA isolated from normoxic (control) SQ20B cells (N=4) and hypoxic (16h at 0.5% oxygen) cells (N=4).	Cancer
GSE89799	The cohesin complex prevents Myc-induced replication stress	The cohesin complex is mutated in cancer and in a number of rare familiar syndromes collectively known as Cohesinopathies. In the latter case, cohesin deficiencies have been linked to transcriptional alterations affecting Myc and its target genes. Here, we set out to understand to what extent the role of cohesins in controlling cell cycle is dependent on Myc expression and activity. Inactivation of the cohesin complex by silencing the RAD21 subunit led to cell cycle arrest due to both transcriptional impairment of Myc target genes and alterations of replication forks, which were fewer and preferentially unidirectional. Ectopic activation of Myc in RAD21 depleted cells, fully rescued transcription and promoted S-phase entry but failed to sustain S-phase progression thus leading to a strong replicative stress response, which was associated to a robust DNA damage response, DNA damage checkpoint activation and synthetic lethality. Thus, the cohesin complex is dispensable for Myc dependent transcription but essential to prevent Myc induced replicative stress. This suggests the presence of a topological checkpoint orchestrated by cohesins that by regulating Myc level prevents S-phase entry and replicative stress in cohesion compromised cells.	Cancer
GSE92322	circRNA-sequencing	circRNA sequencing for 10 samples.	NA
GSE95106	Gene expression in GBM with Cav3.2 inhibition	Glioblastoma stem cells (GSCs) have been implicated in tumor initiation, progression and resistance to therapy. We investigated the expression, function, mechanisms of action and therapeutic targeting of T-type calcium channels (Cav3.2) with the FDA approved and repurposed drug mibefradil in glioblastoma (GBM), and GSCs. We found that Cav3.2 is highly expressed in human GBM specimens and enriched in GCSs.  Analyses of TCGA and REMBRANDT databases confirmed the upregulation of Cav3.2 in a subset of tumors (TCGA) and showed that overexpression is associated with worse prognosis. Mibefradil and Cav3.2 knockdown inhibited the growth, survival and stemness of GSCs and sensitized them to temozolomide (TMZ) chemotherapy.  To investigate the mechanisms of action of Cav3.2 in GSC, we performed proteomic and transcriptomic screenings followed by functional rescue experiments. Inhibition of Cav3.2 altered cancer signaling pathways and gene transcription. Among other, inhibition of Cav3.2 suppressed GSC growth through inhibition of pro-survival pathways AKT/mTOR, and induction of apoptosis through upregulation of survivin, BAX and cleavage of caspase 9 and PARP.  Inhibition of Cav3.2 induced a decrease in the expression of oncogenes including PDGFA, PDGFB and TGFB1 and an increase in the expression of tumor suppressors including TNFRSF14 and HSD17B14. In vivo oral administration of Cav3.2 blocker mibefradil significantly inhibited GSC-derived xenograft growth, prolonged animal survival and sensitized the tumors to TMZ.  Our study represents the first comprehensive characterization of Cav3.2 in GBM tumors and GSC. The findings establish Cav3.2 inhibition with the repurposed FDA-approved drug mibefradil as a new strategy for GBM therapy.	Cancer/knockdown/pathway
GSE95412	Identification of diverse target RNAs that are functionally regulated by human Pumilio proteins	We used RNA-seq to measure transcript levels in human cells with the PUM1 and PUM2 proteins knocked down; by analyzing the differences in transcript abundances between those conditions, we were able to identify 927 targets showing significant changes in the presence of the PUM knockdown.	knockdown
GSE96637	Knock-down of Ror1 in MDA-MB-231 cell line decreases cell invasiveness	RNA-Seq profiling of triple-negative MDA-MB-231 cell line with know-down of non-canonical WNT signaling receptor Ror1. The MDA-MB231 cells were either transfected with a non-sense control shRNA (shCTL) or with a ROR1 shRNA (shROR1) construct. The objective was to find expression-responsive targets of these perturbations as potential drivers of MDA-MB231 cell invasiveness.	knock-down
GSE97239	High-throughput RNA sequencing on circular RNA profiles of human bladder cancer tissues and normal bladder tissues	In order to find out circular RNAs profiles in human bladder cancer tissues and normal bladder tissues, we characterized circuclar RNA transcripts by performing RNA-Seq on ribosomal RNA-depleted total RNA from three pairs of human bladder cancer tissues and paired normal bladder tissues.A computational pipeline based on the anchor alignment of unmapped reads was used to identify circular RNAs. Collectively, we identified16,535 distict circular RNAs, most of them origined from exons (88.96%), others from introns, linc RNA, intergenic region, 3’UTR and 5’UTR. Among all these circRNAs, 571 circRNAs were differentially expressed between bladder cancer tissues and normal bladder tissues, and 524 circRNAs were downregulated in bladder cancer tissues (91.2%), others were upreguluated. These significantly differential expressed circular RNA might have regulatory function in bladder cancer, and worth to be further explored.	Cancer
GSE97259	Determination of tRNA aminoacylation levels by high throughput sequencing	Here we develop a high throughput sequencing method that enables accurate determination of charged tRNA fractions at single base resolution (Charged tRNA-seq). Our method takes advantage of the recently developed DM-tRNA-seq method, but includes additional chemical steps that specifically remove the 3'A residue in the uncharged tRNA. Charging fraction is obtained by counting the fraction of A-ending reads versus A+C-ending reads for each tRNA species. In HEK293T cells, most cytosolic tRNAs are charged at >90% levels, whereas tRNASer and tRNAThr are generally charged at lower levels. These low charging levels were validated using acid denaturing gels. Our method should be widely applicable for investigations of tRNA charging as a parameter for biological regulation.	NA
GSE97806	Disrupted prenatal RNA processing and myogenesis in congenital myotonic dystrophy	Myotonic dystrophy type 1 (DM1) is a CTG microsatellite expansion (CTGexp) disorder caused by expression of CUGexp RNAs. These mutant RNAs alter the activities of RNA processing factors, including MBNL proteins, leading to reversion to specific fetal isoforms in adult tissues and DM1 pathology. While this pathogenesis model accounts for adult-onset disease, the molecular basis of congenital DM (CDM) is unknown. Here, we test the hypothesis that disruption of developmentally regulated RNA alternative processing pathways contributes to CDM disease. Analysis of alternative splicing (AS) transitions during human myogenesis reveals hundreds of AS events that undergo prenatal isoform transitions and both AS and alternative polyadenylation abnormalities are prominently detectable in infant CDM muscle biopsies. While the majority of RNA targets are also mis-regulated in adult-onset DM1, splicing dysregulation is significantly more severe in CDM. Since many of these mis-processing events are MBNL-regulated, we generated mouse Mbnl double (Mbnl1; Mbnl2) and triple (Mbnl1; Mbnl2; Mbnl3) muscle-specific knockout models that recapitulate the congenital myopathy, gene expression and spliceopathy defects characteristic of CDM. This study demonstrates RNA mis-processing is a major pathogenic factor in CDM and provides novel mouse models to further examine roles for co/post-transcriptional gene regulation during tissue development.	knockout/pathway
GSE98580	High capacity of the endoplasmic reticulum to prevent secretion and aggregation of amyloidgenic proteins	Protein aggregation is associated with neurodegeneration and various other pathologies. How specific cellular environments modulate the aggregation of disease proteins is not well understood. Here we investigated how the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) quality control system handles β-sheet proteins that were designed de novo to form amyloid-like fibrils. While these proteins undergo toxic aggregation in the cytosol, we find that targeting them to the ER (ER-β) strongly reduces their toxicity. ER-β is retained within the ER in a soluble polymeric state, despite reaching very high concentrations exceeding those of ER-resident molecular chaperones. ER-β is not removed by ER-associated degradation (ERAD) but interferes with ERAD of other proteins. These findings demonstrate a remarkable capacity of the ER to prevent the formation of insoluble β-aggregates and the secretion of potentially toxic protein species. Our results also suggest a generic mechanism by which proteins with exposed β-sheet  structure in the ER interfere with proteostasis.	NA
GSE100417	Global transcriptome analysis of WT versus HEB-/- hESCs	To examine genome-wide changes in mRNA expression, we performed RNA-Seq on HEB-/- and WT hESCs. There were 274 significant changes in mRNA expression (p<0.05) between HEB-/- and WT hESCs; 126 transcripts were lower and 148 transcripts were higher	NA
GSE102000	SERPINA3- a novel keratinocyte differentiation promotor mediates epidermal barrier repair response in psoriatic lesion	To excavate the genes regulated by SERPINA3, We profiled SERPINA3 silenced differentiated KC versus control using a RNA-seq approach. The genes down regulated in SERPINA3 silenced cells represent targets that are positively regulated by SERPINA3.	NA
GSE102741	RiboZero Gold paired-end RNA-seq data from postmortem tissue of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex of autism spectrum disorder samples and healthy control samples	Purpose: The goals of this study was to compare the expression of histamine related genes in ASD patients and controls. Methods: RNA-Seq was performed using strand-specific Ribosomal RNA depletion (RiboZero) library preparation and the TruSeq RNA Sample Preparation v2 kit from Illumina. One hundred base pair paired-end sequencing was run on the HiSeq 2000. TopHat (v2.0.4) was used to enforce strand specificity and to align the sequencing reads to known transcripts of the Ensembl Build GRCh37.67. FeatureCounts (v1.4.4) was used to count the total number of reads overlapping each gene using the default settings, with paired-end and reverse-stranded counting specified using the Ensembl Build GRCh37.67 gtf file. These counts were merged from both reads of the paired-end sequencing and normalized by library size and coding gene length to form Reads Per Kilobase of Gene per Million mapped reads (RPKM) values. The influence of diagnosis on expression was analyzed with linear regression transcriptome-wide and further evaluated using a gene set analysis. Results: There was no significant diagnosis effect on any of the individual genes but expression of the gene set of HNMT, HRH1, HRH2, and HRH3 was significantly altered. Conclusions: Our study represents the first specific analysis of the expression of histamine related genes in ASD and suggests that these genes may collectively be dysregulated.	Autism spectrum disorder
GSE106170	RNA-seq analysis of umbilical cord blood cells upon knockdown of NAP1L3	The nucleosome assembly proteins (NAPs) are histone chaperones with an important role epigenetic regulation of gene expression. We find that high gene expression levels of murine Nap1l3 is restricted to hematopoietic stem cells. Loss of function of murine and human NAP1L3 impair maintenance of  hematopoietic stem cells and differentiation both in vitro and in vivo. NAP1L3 inhibition in human hematopoietic cells causes a growth arrest in the G0 phase of cycle progression, and induces gene expression signatures that highly significantly correlate with downregulation of genes involved in cell cycle regulation, including E2F and MYC target genes. In addition, we also show that the HOXA3, HOXA5, HOXA6 and HOXA9 are markedly upregulated when NAP1L3 is suppressed in Human hematopoietic cells. Taken together, our findings establish an important role for NAP1L3 in HSC homeostasis and hematopoietic differentiation.	knockdown
GSE106545	Next Generation Sequencing Facilitates Quantitative Analysis of Wild Type and AXL-/- astrocytes Transcriptomes	Next-generation sequencing (NGS) has revolutionized systems-based analysis of cellular pathways. The goals of this study are to compare Wild Type astrocytes transcriptome profiling (RNA-seq) to AXL-/- astrocytes transcriptome profiling and to explore the mechanism by which AXL interferes with type I IFN signaling in WT astrocytes. We performed an RNA-Seq analysis of WT and AXL-/- U-251MG cells in the absence of ZIKV. Surprisingly, the intrinsic level of type I IFN signaling was lower in AXL-/- cells than in WT cells. This result was further confirmed by RT-qPCR	pathway
GSE76421	JAG1 Mediated Notch Signaling Regulates Secretory Cell Differentiation of the Human Airway Epithelium	Background: Basal cells (BC) are the stem/progenitor cells of the human airway epithelium capable of differentiating into secretory and ciliated cells. Notch signaling activation increases BC differentiation into secretory cells, but the role of individual Notch ligands in regulating this process is unknown Results: The objective of this study was to define the role of the Notch ligand JAG1 in regulating BC differentiation. JAG1 over-expression in BC increased secretory cell differentiation, with no effect on ciliated cell differentiation. Conversely, knockdown of JAG1 decreased expression of secretory cell genes. Conclusions: These data demonstrate JAG1 mediated Notch signaling regulates differentiation of BC into secretory cells. This study demonstrates that expression of the Notch ligand JAG1 is highly enriched in basal stem/progenitor cells (BC) of the human airway epithelium and that modulation of its expression levels during differentiation of BC play an important role in regulating secretory cell differentiation with no effect on ciliated cell differentiation.  These observations have implications for developing novel targets to specifically modulate levels of secretory cells in human airway disorders.	knockdown
GSE85671	The Genomic Landscape of Atypical Fibroxanthoma	In this study, we used exome sequencing and RNA sequencing to describe the genomic landscape of Atypical Fibroxanthoma (AFX). Using exome sequencing data, we identified several genes commonly mutated in our samples such as CSMD3, COL11A1, and FAT1. We also identified deletions in chr9p and chr13q in the AFX tumors. Using our RNA-sequencing data, we identified 8591 differentially expressed genes, of which 3524 genes had at least a 2 log fold change between AFX tumors and normal keratinocytes. We also identified several pathways that are dysregulated in AFX, such as epithelial to mesenchymal transition and tumor-associated macrophage response.	pathway
GSE86926	Dermal fibroblasts play a central role in skin model protection against C. albicans invasion	This study shows that, in the presence of CD4+ T cells, dermal fibroblasts shift towards an antimicrobial phenotype leading to reduced dermal invasion by C. albicans. This is dependent on TLR2 activation and pro-IL-1β cleavage and results in expression of genes involved in defense against various classes of pathogens.	NA
GSE87554	Genome-wide transcriptional profiling of YAP target genes in human endothelial cells	Endothelial cell is the major cell type that senses and transduces mechanosignal generated by shear stress. We have recently shown that Hippo/YAP pathway is a mechanosensitive pathway that is critical for maintaining endothelial cell homeostasis. However, the transcritpional targets and biological functions of YAP in endothelial cells remain largely unknown. To evaluate YAP-dependent gene expression in endothelial cells, we performed RNA-sequencing in YAP depleted (by transfection with by YAP siRNA) and overexpressed (by infection with YAP-S127A catalytically active adenovirus) human endothelial cells. We observed that YAP critically regulates endothelial function by modulating multiple atherosclerosis-related genes. Our study provides mechanistic insights into the question how YAP regulates endothelial function and atherosclerosis by modulating endothelial transcriptional profile.	siRNA/pathway
GSE87585	3D genome of multiple myeloma reveals spatial genome disorganization associated with copy number variations	Hi-C technique has been widely applied to study the three-dimensional architecture of the whole genome. Genome structures such as compartment A/B, TAD (topologically associated domain) and chromatin loops can be identified from Hi-C data in both normal cells of human and other species, and are found to be associated with features such as epigenetic markers, DNA-binding proteins and gene expression. But such technique had been rarely used in cancer studies. Here we used Hi-C to study the aneuploid cancer genomic architecture in multiple myeloma cells. Our results indicate that Hi-C interaction matrix of cancer cells is affected by CNVs and should be adjusted for copy number. After correcting this CNV bias, we found a significant overlapping between the boundaries of CNV blocks and boundaries of TADs, which suggests that TAD boundaries are fragile sites for CNV breakpoints. In addition, the compartment A/B switching is associated with differential gene expression, from which we found important genes that are related with multiple myeloma. We build a 3D structure model of the aneuploidy genome and found that there are great changes both in the whole genome spatial interactome and local chromosome territories. In summary, our research builds the first 3D genome interaction maps of multiple myeloma and the first time notice this CNV-driven bias in Hi-C studies, which may deepen our understanding of changes in cancer 3D genome.	Cancer
GSE90552	In Vivo Chemical Screen Nominates Valproic Acid as Pharmacologic Modulator of Hematopoietic Stem and Progenitor Cell Activity	The identification of small molecules which either increase the number and/or enhance the activity of CD34+ hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs) during ex-vivo expansion has remained challenging. Applying an unbiased in vivo chemical screen in a transgenic (c-myb:EGFP) zebrafish embryo model, histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDACI) (valproic acid, resminostat and entinostat) were shown to significantly amplify the number of phenotypic hematopoietic precursors. The identified HDACIs were confirmed to significantly enhance also the expansion of human HSPCs during ex vivo treatment. Long-term functionality of ex vivo expanded human HSPCs was verified in a xenotransplantation model using NSG mice. However, the HDACI induced proliferation of HSPCs was associated with short-term functional changes. One of the identified hits, valproic acid (VPA), increased the adhesion capacity of CD34+ cells on primary mesenchymal stromal cells and reduced their chemokine-mediated migration capacity in vitro. In line with the reduced migratory potential in vitro, homing as well as early engraftment of VPA treated human CD34+ cells was significantly impaired in the xenotransplantation model. Our data confirms that HDACI treatment leads to a net expansion of HSPCs cells with long-term engraftment potential across different species. However impaired homing and short-term-engraftment has to be kept in mind when designing clinical transplantation protocols. In addition, our gene expression analysis (RNA-Seq) revealed expression of several genes that were altered in CD34+ cells by VPA treatment including cell adhesion molecules and Notch and wnt genes which has been shown to be involved in preservation of stem cell properties.	NA
GSE91377	RNA-Seq comparative analysis of human neuroblastoma cells before and after their confrontation to the embryonic microenvironment	We set up an innovative model for neuroblastoma that consists in using the chick embryo to place human neuroblastoma cells back to their original environment: the trunk neural crest. In this context, human neuroblastoma cells migrate towards sympathetic derivatives and form proliferative tumor masses. To assess the impact of the embryonic microenvironment on neuroblastoma cells gene program, we performed an RNASeq comparative analysis of neuroblastoma naïve cells and tumor masses settled in sympathetic derivatives.	NA
GSE94888	FUS mutant human motoneurons transcriptome analysis reveals altered pathways and impairment of microRNA function	Mutations in the RNA-binding protein FUS have been genetically linked to Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS), a neurodegenerative disease caused by the death of motoneurons (MNs). FUS is a ubiquitous protein and the mechanisms leading to selective MN loss downstream of FUS mutations are still largely unknown.   We report the first transcriptome analysis of human purified MNs, obtained from isogenic induced Pluripotent Stem Cells (iPSCs) with a FUS wild-type or mutant genetic background. Gene ontology analysis of differentially expressed genes identified significant enrichment of pathways previously associated to other neurological diseases and non-FUS ALS, suggesting a common pathological mechanism. We also found several microRNAs deregulated in FUS mutant MNs and focused on miR-375 and miR-125b. Notably, miR-125b is a neural-enriched microRNA with multiple functions in the nervous system and miR-375 had been previously associated to MN survival. We report that relevant targets of both microRNAs, including the neural RNA-binding protein ELAVL4 and apoptosis factors such as p53, are aberrantly increased in FUS mutant MNs. Characterization of FUS RNA targets in the cell type primarily affected by the disease contributes to the definition of the pathogenic mechanisms of FUS-linked ALS.	pathway
GSE95352	Novel SF3B1 Deletion Mutations Result in Aberrant RNA Splicing in CLL Patients	Recurrent mutations in RNA splicing factors SF3B1, U2AF1, and SRSF2 have been reported in hematologic cancers including myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). However, SF3B1 is the only splicing associated gene to be found mutated in CLL and has been shown to induce aberrant splicing. To investigate if any other genomic aberration caused similar transcriptome changes, we clustered RNASeq samples based on an alternative 3’ splice site (ss) pattern previously identified in SF3B1-mutant CLL patients. Out of 215 samples, we identified 37 (17%) with alternative 3’ ss usage, the majority of which harbored known SF3B1 hotspot mutations. Interestingly, 3 patient samples carried previously unreported in-frame deletions in SF3B1 around K700, the most frequent mutation hotspot. To study the functional effects of these deletions, we used various minigenes demonstrating that recognition of canonical 3’ ss and alternative branchsite are required for aberrant splicing, as observed for SF3B1 p.K700E. The common mechanism of action of these deletions and substitutions result in similar sensitivity of primary cells towards splicing inhibitor E7107. Altogether, these data demonstrate that novel SF3B1 in-frame deletion events identified in CLL result in aberrant splicing, a common biomarker in spliceosome-mutant cancers.	Cancer
GSE99298	Structural basis for human respiratory syncytial virus NS1-mediated modulation of host responses	Human respiratory syncytial virus (hRSV) is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in the pediatric, elderly, and immune compromised populations. A gap in our understanding of hRSVdisease pathology is the interplay between virally encoded immune antagonists and host components that limit hRSV replication. hRSV encodes for non-structural (NS) proteins that are important immune antagonists; however, the role of these proteins in viral pathogenesis is incompletely understood. Here we report the crystal structure of hRSV NS1 protein, which suggests that NS1 is a structural paralog of hRSV matrix (M) protein. Comparative analysis of the shared structural fold with M revealed regions unique to NS1. Studies on NS1 WT or mutant alone or in recombinant RSVs demonstrate that structural regions unique to NS1 contribute to modulation of host responses, including inhibition of type I IFN responses, suppression of dendritic cell maturation, and promotion of inflammatory responses. Transcriptional profiles of A549 cells infected with recombinant RSVs show significant differences in multiple host pathways, suggesting that NS1 may have a greater role in regulating host responses than previously appreciated. These results provide a framework to target NS1 for therapeutic development to limit hRSV associated morbidity and mortality.	pathway
GSE100530	Mutational landscape of splicing genes and functional consequences across 33 cancer types	Hotspot mutations in the spliceosome component genes have been recently reported at high frequency in hematological malignancies, suggesting the importance of this pathway in cancer. However, a comprehensive survey of splicing factor mutations across tumor types has not yet been performed. We analyzed whole-exome sequencing data across 33 tumor types in The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) in order to discover recurrent mutations in spliceosome components, identifying 119 genes with significant non-silent mutation patterns, including mutation overrepresentation, recurrent loss of function (tumor suppressor-like), or hotspot mutation profile (oncogene-like). We used RNA sequencing data to identify altered splicing events associated with these spliceosome mutations. In addition, we were able to discover common gene pathway profiles associated with the presence of these mutations. Our analysis suggests that somatic alteration of the splicing pathway is common in solid tumors and may represent an underappreciated hallmark of tumorigenesis.	Cancer
GSE101968	Obstructed defecation – an enteric neuropathy? An exploratory study of patient samples	The aim of this experimental study is to elucidate alterations of the autonomous enteric nervous system at the molecular level in patients with obstructed defecation, who represent one of the most predominant groups of constipated patients.	Neuropathy
GSE101972	RNA-seq analysis of the role of HBO1 (KAT7/MYST2) in the ovarian cancer cell line UWB1.289.	Analysis of change in transcriptosome after stable lentiviral HBO1 knockdown in UWB1.289 ovarian cancer cell line.	Cancer
GSE102185	Effect of FGF13 depletion on the H460 cell line	The purpose of our study was to explore the relevance of the FGF13 protein in a NSCLC cell line	NA
GSE102215	RNA-Seq in neutrophils from Antiphospholipid Syndrome	Antiphospholipid antibodies are a leading cause of thrombosis. To further elucidate the role of neutrophils in APS, we performed a comprehensive transcriptome analysis using the total RNA of neutrophils isolated from 9 patients with primary APS and 9 age, sex and ethnicity-matched healthy controls using next-generation RNA-seq.	NA
GSE102392	Transcriptome analysis of human airway epithelium infected by Human Bocavirus 1	Human Bocavirus 1(HBoV1), which belongs to the genus Bocaparvovirus of the family Parvoviridae, infects well differentiated human airway epithelium which is at mitotically quiescent state. To systematicaly investigate the interaction between HBoV1 and primary human airway epithelium cultured at an air-liquid interface (HAE-ALI), RNA-seq was applied to study the transcriptome profile of HAE-ALI infected by HBoV1.	NA
GSE103305	Thyroid State Regulates Gene Expression in Human Whole Blood Cells	Context: Despite the well-recognized clinical features due to insufficient or excessive thyroid hormone (TH) levels in humans, it is largely unknown which genes are regulated by TH in human tissues. objective: To study the effect of TH on human gene expression profiles in whole blood, mainly consisting of TRα-expressing cells. Methods: We performed next-generation RNA sequencing on whole blood samples from 8 athyroid patients (4 females) on and after 4 weeks off levothyroxine replacement. Gene expression changes were analyzed through paired differential expression analysis and confirmed in a validation cohort. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) was applied to identify thyroid state-related networks. Results: We detected 486 differentially expressed (DE) genes (fold-change above 1.5; multiple testing corrected P-value <0.05), of which 76 % were positively and 24 % were negatively regulated. Gene ontology (GO) enrichment analysis revealed that 3 biological processes were significantly overrepresented of which the process translational elongation showed the highest fold enrichment (7.3 fold, P=1.8 x 10-6). Comparative transcriptome analysis revealed significant overlap with DE-genes in muscle samples upon different thyroid state (1.7-fold enrichment; P=0.02). WGCNA analysis independently identified various gene clusters that correlated with thyroid state. Further GO-analysis suggested that thyroid state regulates platelet function. Conclusions: Changes in thyroid state regulate numerous genes in human whole blood, predominantly TRα-expressing leukocytes. In addition, TH may regulate gene expression in platelets. Whole blood samples might potentially be used as a proxy for other TRα-expressing tissues in humans.	NA
GSE104177	Global modulation of signaling pathways by SARM RAD140 in AR/ER+ breast cancer xenografts	These data demonstrates the regulation of AR and ER pathways by the SARM RAD140 and suggested a unique mechanism of action of RAD140 via the AR-mediated transcription repression.	Breast cancer/Cancer/pathway
GSE104583	‘Naïve’ ESRRB+ iPSCs with the capacity for rapid neural differentiation	Several groups have reported the existence of a form of pluripotency that resembles that of mouse embryonic stem cells (mESCs), i.e., a naïve state, in human pluripotent stem cells; however, the characteristics vary between reports. The nuclear receptor ESRRB is expressed in mESCs and plays a significant role in their self-renewal, but its expression has not been observed in most naïve-like human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs). In this study, we modified several methods for converting hiPSCs into a naïve state through the transgenic expression of several reprogramming factors. The resulting cells express the components of the core transcriptional network of mESCs, including ESRRB, at high levels, which suggests the existence of naïve-state hiPSCs that are similar to mESCs. We also demonstrate that these cells differentiate more readily into neural cells than do conventional hiPSCs. These features may be beneficial for their use in disease modeling and regenerative medicine.	NA
GSE106148	α Cell Function and Gene Expression Are Compromised in Type 1 Diabetes	Many patients with type 1 diabetes (T1D) have residual beta cells producing small amounts of C-peptide long after disease onset, but develop an inadequate glucagon response to hypoglycemia following T1D diagnosis. The features of these residual beta cells and alpha cells persisting in the islet endocrine compartment are largely unknown due to difficulty of comprehensive investigation. By studying the T1D pancreas and isolated islets, we show that remnant beta cells appeared to maintain several aspects of regulated insulin secretion. However, the function of T1D alpha cells was markedly reduced and these cells had alterations in transcription factors constituting and alpha and beta cell identity. In the native pancreas and after placing the T1D islets into a non-autoimmune, normoglycemic in vivo environment, there was no evidence of alpha-to-beta cell conversion. These results suggest a new explanation for the disordered T1D counterregulatory glucagon response to hypoglycemia.	NA
GSE107245	Proteotranscriptomic profiling of potential E6AP targets in prostate cancer cells	Prostate cancer is a common cause of cancer-related death in men. E6AP, an E3 ubiquitin ligase and a transcription cofactor, is elevated in a subset of prostate cancer patients. Genetic manipulations of E6AP in prostate cancer cells expose a role of E6AP in promoting growth and survival of prostate cancer cells in vitro and in vivo. However, the effect of E6AP on prostate cancer cells is broad and it cannot be explained fully by previously identified tumour suppressor targets of E6AP, promyelocytic leukemia protein and p27. To explore additional players that are regulated downstream of E6AP, we combined a transcriptomic and proteomic approaches. We identified and quantified 16,130 transcripts and 7,209 proteins in castration resistant prostate cancer cell line, DU145. A total of 2,763 transcripts and 308 proteins were significantly altered upon knockdown of E6AP. Pathway analyses supported the known phenotypic effects of E6AP knockdown in prostate cancer cells and in parallel exposed novel potential links of E6AP with cancer metabolism, DNA damage repair and immune response. Changes in expression of the top candidates were confirmed using real-time polymerase chain reaction. Of these, clusterin, a stress-induced chaperone protein, commonly deregulated in prostate cancer, was pursued further. Knockdown of E6AP resulted in increased clusterin transcript and protein levels in vitro and in vivo. Concomitant knockdown of E6AP and clusterin supported the contribution of clusterin to the phenotype induced by E6AP. Overall, results from this study provide insight into the potential biological pathways controlled by E6AP in prostate cancer cells and identifies clusterin as a novel target of E6AP.	Cancer/Prostate cancer
GSE98091	Transcriptomic analysis of the HOTAIR-regulated genes	An integrated RNA sequencing transcriptomic and quantitative proteomic analysis were employed to systematically explore the regulatory role of HOTAIR in HCC. A total of 673 transcripts and 298 proteins were identified to be dysregulated after HOTAIR inhibition.	NA
GSE98485	A SRp55-regulated alternative splicing network controls pancreatic beta cell survival and function	Progressive failure of insulin-producing beta cells is the central event leading to diabetes, yet the signalling networks controlling beta cell fate remain poorly understood. Here we show that SRp55, a splicing factor regulated by the diabetes susceptibility gene GLIS3, has a major role in maintaining function and survival of human beta cells. RNA-seq analysis revealed that SRp55 regulates the splicing of genes involved in cell survival and death, insulin secretion and JNK signalling. Specifically, SRp55-mediated splicing changes modulate the function of the pro-apoptotic proteins BIM and BAX, JNK signalling and endoplasmic reticulum stress, explaining why SRp55 depletion triggers beta cell apoptosis. Furthermore, SRp55 depletion inhibits beta cell mitochondrial function, explaining the observed decrease in insulin release. These data unveil a novel layer of regulation of human beta cell function and survival, namely alternative splicing modulated by key splicing regulators such as SRp55 that may crosstalk with candidate genes for diabetes.	NA
GSE99231	ZFR coordinates crosstalk between RNA decay and transcription in innate immunity	Identification of RNAs differentially expressed upon ZFR knockdown in THP1 and HEK-293TO cells.	knockdown
GSE103270	Transcriptional profile in dermal fibroblasts from patients with collagen VI related muscular dystrophy	Objectives:  The collagen VI related muscular dystrophies (COL6-RD), Ullrich congenital muscular dystrophy (UCMD) and Bethlem myopathy (BM) are among the most common congenital muscular dystrophies, but the pathogenesis, including the role of mutant collagen VI in the matrix is poorly understood. To better define the pathways disrupted by mutations in collagen VI, we have used a transcriptional profiling approach with RNA-Seq to identify differentially expressed genes in COL6-RD patients from controls. Methods:  We have used RNA-Seq to identify differentially expressed genes in cultured dermal fibroblasts from 13 COL6-RD patients (8 dominant negative and 5 null) and 6 controls.  Sequence reads were analyzed using the TopHat/Cufflinks pipeline. Results:  Differentially expressed transcripts between COL6-RD patient and control fibroblasts include upregulation of ECM components and downregulation of factors controlling matrix remodeling and repair.  DN and null samples are differentiated by downregulation of genes involved with DNA replication and repair in null samples	pathway
GSE108500	Knockdown of FOXP1 promotes the development of lung adenocarcinoma	Lung cancer is one of the most common cancers in the world, which accounts for about 27% of all cancer deaths. However, the mechanisms underlying the pathogenesis of lung cancer cells remain largely elusive. In this study, we examined the role of the Forkhead box protein P1 (FOXP1) in lung cancer development. Our Oncomine analysis shows that FOXP1 is downregulated in lung adenocarcinoma compared with normal lung tissue. Knockdown of FOXP1 promotes the proliferation growth and invasion of PC9 and A549 cells by regulating genes of chemokine signaling molecules, including CCR1, ADCY5, GNG7, VAV3, and PLCB1. Simultaneous knockdown of CCR1 and FOXP1 attenuated FOXP1 knockdown-induced increase of lung cancer cell growth. Finally, knockdown of FOXP1 in PC9 cells promotes the tumorigenesis via CCR1 signaling in xenograft mouse model. Taken together, our data suggest that FOXP1 plays important roles in preventing lung adenocarcinoma development via suppressing chemokine signaling pathways. Novel strategies might be developed to prevent the development of lung adenocarcinoma by targeting FOXP1	knockdown
GSE109798	Comparative Transcriptomics of Triple Negative Breast Cancer Stem Cells and Differentiated Tumor Cells Identifies Teneurin-4 as a Potential Therapeutic Target	BACKGROUND: Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is insensitive to the most effective therapies for other breast cancers, including endocrine and Her2-directed therapies, thus the lack of specific treatments prompted us to search for new TNBC-associated molecules to be used as targets for cancer therapy. As patients with TNBC usually experience a quicker relapse and metastatic progression compared to other breast cancer subtypes, we hypothesized that cancer stem cells (CSC) could play a central role in TNBC. We thus directed our focus on genes differentially expressed between CSC and differentiated cancer cells of TNBC cell lines. RESULTS: We established tumorsphere cultures from mouse and human mammary cancer cell lines to enrich the CSC population. RNA-Seq was used to identify differences in gene expression between tumorspheres and their monolayer counterparts. Seventy-four transcripts were found up-regulated in the tumorspheres, while forty-two genes were down-regulated. Enrichment analysis of biological processes showed an up-regulation in genes involved in regulation of apoptosis in tumorspheres, and a down-regulation in genes involved in lipid metabolism and cell cycle regulation. By focusing on up-regulated genes coding for cell membrane-associated proteins, we selected Teneurin-4 (TENM4) as a candidate for further studies. Meta-analysis of publicly available datasets revealed that TENM4 mRNA is up-regulated in both lobular and ductal invasive carcinoma specimens compared to normal breast, and that high expression of TENM4 in TNBC patients shows a trend of correlation with a shorter relapse-free survival. 4T1 tumorspheres treated with a siRNA specific to TENM4 showed a decrease in TENM4 mRNA and protein levels, which was reflected by a significant impairment of tumorsphere-forming ability. TENM4 silencing also led to a decrease in Focal Adhesion Kinase (FAK) phosphorylation, which has been previously linked to CSC biology, thus strengthening the possible link between TENM4 and a CSC-like phenotype. CONCLUSIONS: Overall, our results indicate that the stem-like status of TNBC cells is accompanied by altered regulation of apoptosis, cell cycle and lipid metabolism pathways. Furthermore, we identified TENM4 as a potential novel player in CSC biology, and its potential role as a novel target to improve the outcome of TNBC patients in the future.	Breast cancer/Cancer
GSE86430	Directional RNA-Seq on CD4+ T cells collected from children with asthma with/without obesity	We compare the CD4+ T cell transcriptome between obese and normal-weight children with asthma to identify molecules/pathways differentially expressed in obese asthmatic CD4+  T cells	Obesity
GSE86867	Expression level comparison under dividing and quiescent states in human primary fibroblasts	To identify genes with different expression levels in dividing and quiescent cells, mRNA-sequencing was done in both conditions for human primary fibroblasts (HCA2-hTert).	NA
GSE93904	Gene expression profile of CRC-derived HILEC	HILEC from CRC tissues isolated from human patients underwent RNA sequencing to define their expression profile by comparison with healthy cells.	NA
GSE94332	mRNA expression profile of Lymphocytes by high-throuput sequencing	The activation of CD4+ T helper (Th) cells is crucial for the induction of cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) responses against malignancy. We reprogrammed a Th clone specific for chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML)-derived b3a2 peptide to pluripotency and re-differentiated the cells into T-lineage cells (iPS-T cells). Although iPS-T cells retained the same T-cell receptor (TCR) as the original Th clone, their gene expression patterns resembled those of group 1 innate lymphoid cells, and CD4 molecule, an essential co-receptor in TCR-mediated Th responses, was not expressed. The transduction of CD4 genes into iPS-T cells enhanced b3a2 peptide–specific responses. iPS-T cells contained a subpopulation that up-regulates CD40 ligand (CD40L) in response to IL-2 and IL-15. Besides CD4 expression, CD40Lhigh iPS-T cells induced antigen-specific DC maturation characterized by enhanced CD83, CD86, and CCR7. In the presence of Wilms tumor 1 (WT1) peptide, DCs conditioned by CD4-modified CD40Lhigh iPS-T cells stimulated the priming of WT1-specific CTLs. These CTLs eliminated WT1 peptide-expressing CML cell lines in vitro and in vivo. Our findings indicate CD4 modification and purification of CD40Lhigh iPS-T cells generates T helper-like cells that induce effective anti-leukemic CTL responses via DC maturation and suggest feasibility of the cells for adoptive immunotherapy against leukemia.	NA
GSE107762	Identification of PRMT5-dependent genes in ESA+CD24lowCD44+ MCF7 cells	PRMT5 has been associated with poor prognosis in breast cancer. Here, we identify genes which are dependent on PRMT5 expression in MCF7 ESA+CD24lowCD44+ breast cancer stem cells by RNA-seq	Breast cancer/Cancer
GSE110114	A practical evaluation of alignment algorithms for RNA variant calling analysis	We performed RNA-seq with ten pieces of breast cancer (invasive ductal carcinoma; luminal B type) tissue and three pieces of adjacent normal tissue from a single patient. These RNA-seq data were used to evaluate the performance of splice-aware aligners.	variant
GSE64744	Small RNA profiling reveals deregulated PTEN/PI3K/Akt pathway in asthmatic bronchial smooth muscle cells	Background: Aberrant expression of small non-coding RNAs (sncRNAs), in particular microRNAs (miRNAs) and PIWI-interacting RNAs (piRNAs) define several pathological processes. Asthma is characterized by airway hyper-reactivity, chronic inflammation and airway wall remodeling. Asthma-specific miRNA profiles were reported for bronchial epithelial cells, but no information on sncRNA expression in asthmatic bronchial smooth muscle (BSM) cells is available. Objective: To determine whether primary BSM sncRNA expression profile is altered in asthma and identify targets of differentially expressed sncRNAs. Methods: SmallRNA sequencing was used for sncRNA profiling in BSM cells (8 asthma, 6 non-asthma). sncRNA identification and differential expression analysis was performed with iMir, . experimentally validated miRNA targets were identified with Ingenuity Pathway Analysis and putative piRNA targets with miRanda. Results: Asthmatic BSM cells showed abnormal expression of 32 sncRNAs (26 miRNAs, 5 piRNAs, and 1 snoRNA). Target prediction for deregulated miRNAs and piRNAs revealed experimentally validated and predicted mRNA targets expressed in the BSM cells. 38 of these mRNAs represent major targets for deregulated miRNAs and may play important roles in the pathophysiology of asthma. Interestingly, 6 such miRNAs were previously associated with asthma and/or considered as novel therapeutic targets for treatment of this disease. Signaling pathway analysis revealed involvement of these sncRNAs in increased cell proliferation via PTEN and PI3K/Akt signaling pathways. Conclusions: BSM cells from asthma patients are characterized by aberrant sncRNA expression that recapitulates multiple pathological phenotypes of these cells. Implications: sncRNA expression profiling performed in this study further improve our understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying asthma-associated processes in lungs.	pathway
GSE76663	miRNAs affected by antagomiR-17 treatment	To understand the the effect of antagomir-17 treatment on human endothelial cells derived from human umbilical cord blood (UCB) CD34+ hematopoietic stem cells, we have employed mRNA sequencing. The antagomiR-17 used in this study was purchased from Dharmacon and cell transfection was performed using Lipofectamine RNAiMAx from Life Technologies. Scramble antagomiR from Ambion was used as control. Cells were transfected with antagomiR-17 or scrambled antagomiR for 48 hours.  After 48 h, the cells were collected, RNA was isolated and RNA samples were shipped to Exiqon Services, Denmark for mRNA sequencing. All sequencing experiments (RNA integrity measurements, library preparation and next generation sequencing) were conducted at Exiqon Services, Denmark.	NA
GSE77328	OmoMYC blunts promoter invasion by oncogenic MYC to inhibit gene expression characteristic of MYC-dependent tumors	MYC genes have both essential roles during normal development and exert oncogenic functions during tumorigenesis. Expression of a dominant-negative allele of MYC, termed OmoMYC, can induce rapid tumor regression in mouse models with little toxicity for normal tissues. How OmoMYC discriminates between physiological and oncogenic functions of MYC is unclear. We have solved the crystal structure of OmoMYC and show that it forms a stable homodimer and as such recognizes DNA in the same manner as the MYC/MAX heterodimer. OmoMYC attenuates both MYC-dependent activation and repression by competing with MYC/MAX for binding to chromatin, effectively lowering MYC/MAX occupancy at its cognate binding sites. OmoMYC causes the largest decreases in promoter occupancy and changes in expression on genes that are invaded by oncogenic MYC levels. A signature of OmoMYC-regulated genes defines subgroups with high MYC levels in multiple tumor entities and identifies novel targets for the eradication of MYC-driven tumors.	NA
GSE77382	Arnica montana stimulates extracellular matrix gene expression in human macrophages differentiated to wound-healing phenotype.	Arnica m. effects were associated with a purported anti-inflammatory and tissue healing actions after trauma, bruises, or tissue injuries, but its cellular and molecular mechanisms are largely unknown. Here Arnica m. dilutions were tested using an in vitro model of macrophages polarized towards a “wound-healing” phenotype. The monocyte-macrophage human THP-1 cell line was cultured and differentiated with phorbol-myristate acetate and Interleukin-4, then exposed for 24 h to Arnica m. centesimal (c) dilutions 2c, 3c, 5c,9c, 15c or Control. None of these treatments affected cell viability. A total of 20 genes were differentially expressed comparing cells treated with Arnica m. 2c with those treated with Control only. Of these, 7 genes were up-regulated and 13 were down-regulated. Functional gene enrichment analysis showed that the most significantly upregulated function concerned 4 genes with a conserved site of EGF-like region (p<0.001) and three genes of proteinaceous extracellular matrix, including heparin sulphate proteoglycan 2 (HSPG2), fibrillin 2 (FBN2), and fibronectin (FN1) (p <0.01). Protein assay in supernatants confirmed a statistically significant increase of fibronectin production in Arnica m. 2c treated cells (p<0.05). Pooled extracts of cells treated with increasing dilutions of Arnica m. (3c, 5c, 15c) showed up-regulation of the same group of genes although with lower effect size. The down-regulated transcripts derive from mitochondrial genes coding for some components of electron transport chain. These findings provide new insights into the action of Arnica m. in tissue healing and repair, identifying increased fibronectin production by macrophages as a major therapeutic target.	NA
GSE78011	RNA-Seq Analysis of Anacardic Acid Treated MCF7 and MDA-MB-231 Breast Cancer Cell Lines	Anacardic acid (AnAc) is a mixture of 6-alkylbenzoic acid congeners that are produced in a number of plants. Previously, we showed a specific congener AnAc 24:1n5 acts as a nuclear receptor alternate site modulator (NRAM) to inhibit breast cancer cells in an estrogen receptor (ER)-dependent manner by interfering with ER-DNA binding. AnAc 24:1n5 also inhibited the growth of a triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) cell line, through an undefined mechanism. Additional work from our labs  indicated AnAc 24:1n5 inhibits prostaglandin synthase and that inhibition is more specific to COX-2. Reports from other investigators indicate AnAc has a number of interesting potential pharmacological targets. We previously used qRT-PCR to investigate expression changes in endogenous estrogen-regulated genes, i.e., TFF1, CCND1, and CTSD in breast cancer cell lines. However, since AnAc has the capacity of effect multiple molecular targets and since we detected an ER-independent inhibition of breast cancer cell proliferation, we suspect additional unknown molecular targets are affected in breast cancer cells. Identification of such targets using RNA-seq would be quite beneficial in targeting TNBC which primarily affects premenopausal women with a predominance in women of African and Latina ancestry.  The goal of this portion of the project is to use next-generation RNA-SEQ to identify alterations in molecular target sequence levels in ER-positive and -negative breast cancer cell lines treated with AnAc.	Breast cancer/Cancer
GSE82236	Whole-transcriptome profilings between a pair of HCA7-derived KRAS-wildtype cetuximab sensitive and resistant colon cancer cells from 3D culture	We report the results of RNA-Seq and small RNA-Seq from a pair of HCA7-derived, KRAS wildtype CC and CC-CR cultured in 3D. A total of 361 genes showed more than a two-fold change in expression (false-discovery rate [FDR] - adjusted p<0.01) between CC-CR and CC; there were 141 transcripts upregulated and 220 transcripts downregulated in CC-CR compared to CC. Small RNA-Seq detected 7 miRNAs upregulated and 24 miRNAs downregulated in CC-CR cells compared to CC cells (fold change>2, FDR<0.01). Differential expression analysis revealed several novel candidates that may contribute to cetuximab resistance. The whole-transcriptome profilings using cetuximab resistance model from 3D culture provide novel candidates for cetuximab resistance and further functional studies might open the door to a novel understanding of how non-mutational mechanisms mediate cetuximab resistance.	Cancer
GSE87532	Tristetraprolin disables prostate cancer maintenance by impairing proliferation and metabolic function	Tristetraprolin (TTP) is an RNA-binding protein that post-transcriptionally suppresses gene expression by delivering mRNA cargo to processing bodies (P-bodies) where the mRNA is degraded. TTP functions as a tumor suppressor in a mouse model of B cell lymphoma, and in some human malignancies low TTP expression correlates with reduced survival. Here we report important prognostic and functional roles for TTP in human prostate cancer. First, gene expression analysis of prostate tumors revealed low TTP expression correlates with patients having high-risk Gleason scores and increased biochemical recurrence. Second, in prostate cancer cells with low levels of endogenous TTP, inducible TTP expression inhibits their growth and proliferation, as well as their clonogenic growth. Third, TTP functions as a tumor suppressor in prostate cancer, as forced TTP expression markedly impairs the tumorigenic potential of prostate cancer cells in a mouse xenograft model. Finally, pathway analysis of gene expression data suggested metabolism is altered by TTP expression in prostate tumor cells, and metabolic analyses revealed that such processes are impaired by TTP, including mitochondrial respiration. Collectively, these findings suggest that TTP is an important prognostic indicator for prostate cancer, and augmenting TTP function would effectively disable the metabolism and proliferation of aggressive prostate tumors.	Cancer/Prostate cancer
GSE90884	Presence of NAD+-capped RNA in human cells: function and removal by the DXO deNADing Protein	Eukaryotic mRNAs generally possess an N7 methyl guanosine cap at their 5? end to promote their translation and stability. Here we demonstrate mammalian mRNAs can carry a 5'-end nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+) cap. We further demonstrate fungal and mammalian noncanonical DXO family of decapping enzymes can efficiently remove NAD+ caps from mRNAs in vitro and cocrystal structures of DXO with 3´ phosphate NAD+ illuminates the molecular mechanism for the “deNADing” reaction.  An NAD+ cap promotes mRNA decay in wild type mammalian cells and confers mRNA stability in the absence of DXO.  Importantly, mammalian cells possess a capping mechanism that NAD+ caps a subset of intronic small nucleolar RNAs that are selectively enriched in DXO deficient cells.  Our data establish NAD+ as a bona fide mammalian RNA cap and identifies the DXO proteins as potent deNADing enzymes that modulate the levels of NAD+-capped RNAs in cells.	NA
GSE91051	Gene expression changes due to PARP knockdown in human cells	To address the global impact of PARP-1 on the transcriptome, we knocked down PARP1 using siRNA from Dharmacon. Total RNA in three biological replicates from control (non-treated) and PARP-1 siRNA-treated cells were isolated. Sequencing of these RNAs on an Illumina NextSeq 500 yielded >56 million 75-bp RNA-seq reads. First we tested if PARP-1 KD was effective at the RNA-seq level. Reads aligning to the entire gene body of PARP-1 show a reduction in PARP-1 expression of about 1.5-fold (P-value < 0.0003), confirming that indeed PARP-1 was depleted after PARP-1 siRNA treatment. We next used these RNA-seq data sets (control and PARP-1 KD) to assess whether these treatments resulted in changes in gene expression and alternative splicing.	knockdown
GSE91087	Comparing gene expression in iPSC derived RPE from control and AMD donors	iPSC-RPE cells derived from a patient with AMD, whom harboured the Y402H mutation were compared to healthy donor RPE cells.	NA
GSE93813	Exploiting Prmt5-orchestrated intron detention signatures to treat splicing-addicted malignant glioma tumors	The presence of introns within otherwise completely spliced mRNA molecules has been associated with splicing errors. Recent evidence however suggests that intron-based transcript inactivation is widespread and regulates the cytoplasmic availability of productive transcript isoforms. The regulatory and functional details of this process have remained unclear. We here present the arginine methyltransferase Prmt5 as the top hit from an in vivo RNAi screen for therapeutic vulnerabilities of malignant gliomas. Inhibition of Prmt5 inactivates hundreds of pro-proliferative genes by increasing the inclusion of so-called “detained” introns (DIs) within mRNAs. DI-based inactivation of these genes causes cessation of cell proliferation and exhibits potent anti-tumor effects in vitro and in vivo. Gliomas become increasingly sensitive to Prmt5 inhibition upon tumor progression. Furthermore, DI-based gene expression regulation is not restricted to cancer, but contributes to cell differentiation by governing the expression levels of gene sets related to both cell cycle and cell identity.	Glioma
GSE94367	ATF4 inhibition by p62 represses stromal metabolic reprogramming and tumorigenesis II	Tumors often undergo stress and need to reprogram their metabolism to survive and grow under nutrient challenging conditions. The stroma could play a critical role in this process by providing nutrients or signals to support the epithelial compartment of the tumor. Autophagy has been shown to play key roles both in the stroma and in the epithelium. However, how autophagy adaptors, such as p62, participate in the mechanisms whereby the stroma supports tumor progression is not yet fully understood. Here we show that p62 deficiency in stromal fibroblasts promotes resistance to glutamine deprivation through a metabolic reprogramming orchestrated by the direct control of ATF4 stability by p62-mediated polyubiquitination. This, in turn, activates the flux of glucose carbons through a pyruvate carboxylase-asparagine synthase cascade that results in asparagine-mediated stromal cell growth and tumor epithelial proliferation, independent of autophagy. This supports a new model in which p62 directly targets nuclear transcription factors to control metabolic reprograming in the microenvironment to repress tumorigenesis, and emerges as global tumor suppressor.	NA
GSE96544	Expression analysis of Mebendazole treated THP-1 cells in three paired samples	Mebendazole treatment of MLL rearanged cell line THP-1	NA
GSE97471	Differentially expressed genes from RNA-Seq and functional enrichment results are affected by the choice of single-end versus paired-end reads and stranded versus non-stranded protocols	We undertook four mammalian transcriptomics experiments to compare the effect of read mapping, feature counting and differential expression analysis using single-end (SE) and paired-end (PE) protocols. For three of these experiments we also compared a non-stranded (NS) and a strand-specific approach to mapping the paired-end data.	NA
GSE99304	The stress granule transcriptome reveals principles of mRNA accumulation in stress granules.	Stress granules are mRNA-protein assemblies formed on nontranslating mRNAs. Stress granules are important in the stress response, related to neuronal mRNP granules, and aberrant stress granules contribute to some degenerative diseases.  By RNA-Seq and single molecule FISH, we describe the stress granule transcriptome in both yeast and mammalian cells. This reveals that while essentially every mRNA, and some ncRNAs, can be targeted to stress granules, the efficiency of targeting can vary from <1% to 73%. mRNA accumulation in stress granules is increased by longer coding regions, poor translatability, and correlates with some RNA binding proteins. Standardizing the RNA-Seq analysis by single molecule FISH allows a quantitative description of the general and stress gra­nule transcriptome. Approximately 15% of the bulk mRNA molecules accumulate in stress granules suggesting their effect will be limited primarily to subsets of mRNAs highly accumulating in stress granules	NA
GSE101705	Existing blood transcriptional classifiers accurately discriminate active tuberculosis from latent infection in a South Indian cohort	We report the accuracy of various existing blood transcriptional signatures in distinguishing TB and LTBI individuals in a South Indian cohort	NA
GSE102460	BACH2 in human plasma cell fate decision	We report here the broad transcriptomic program regulated by BACH2 transcription factor.   We used a well suited in vitro model of B cell differentiation to evaluate transcriptomic program governed by BACH2 leading to Plasmocyte (PC) differentiation.  In this model B cells were cultured with anti-BCR, CpG, CD40L and Interleukin-2 (IL2). This Interleukin triggers PC differentiation by directly repressing BACH2 expression. We artificially inhibit BACH2 expression by siRNA and found that this condition is sufficient to trigger PC differentiation without IL2.   To understand global changes induced by enforced BACH2 downregulation we compared Chip-Sequencing data between activated B Cells  and BACH2 deficient B cells (siBACH2). We found that BACH2 binds more than 3000 genes across the human genome. RNAsequencing comparing IL2 drivent committed cells and siBACH2 committed cells highlighs a large common trasncriptional program shared by  both conditions and involved in B cell destiny.  This study provides evidence that BACH2 is a guardian of B cell fate.	siRNA
GSE103170	Neutrophils in systemic onset Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis display sepsis-like features which can be reverted by IL-1 blockade	This study investigated neutrophils in systemic onset Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis (sJIA), one of the most common multifactorial autoinflammatory diseases, characterized by arthritis and severe systemic inflammatory manifestations like fever, rash, hepatosplenomegaly and serositis. Neutrophil counts were markedly increased at disease onset, correlated to levels of inflammatory mediators and normalized within days after initiation of therapy with recombinant IL-1 receptor antagonist (rIL-1RA). Neutrophils isolated from 3 sJIA patients with active disease, before initiation of therapy (2 disease onset, 1 systemic flare) and 3 healthy controls were compared. A clear separation between the transcriptome of sJIA patients and HCs was observed. In total, 1068 genes were significantly upregulated and 625 genes were downregulated in sJIA; GO-analyses indicated upregulation of inflammatory processes in sJIA neutrophils compared to HCs. GSEA analyses revealed a significant enrichment with the transcriptome of neutrophils in sepsis patients. Correspondingly, neutrophils from sJIA patients during active disease displayed a primed phenotype characterized by an increased respiratory burst, CD62L shedding and degranulation of secretory vesicles. This phenotype was completely reversed in sJIA patients in remission on rIL-1RA. Our data show an important role for neutrophils in the early inflammatory phase of sJIA and a strong susceptibility of neutrophil numbers and inflammatory activity to IL-1 signaling blockade.	NA
GSE104295	Analysis of gene expression in SKOV3 ovarian cancer cells after knockdown of the long non-coding RNA DNM3OS	RNA-sequencing was performed to gain insight into the mechanism responsible for the mesenchymal-to-epithelial transition (MET) induced by loss of long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) DNM3OS in SKOV3 ovarian cancer cells. Following siRNA-mediated knockdown of DNM3OS or non-targeting control,  RNA-sequencing was performed. This high-throughput data revealed knockdown of DNM3OS down-regulated the expression of genes and pathways known to induce EMT in ovarian cancer.	Cancer/knockdown
GSE106336	Transcriptional changes in pancreatic cancer cells associated with gemcitabine resistance	The goal of this study was to determine the transcriptional changes in pancreatic cancer cells after treatment with gemcitabine.	Cancer/Pancreatic cancer
GSE109082	Sex Differences in the Late First Trimester Human Placenta Transcriptome	This study is the first characterization of the first trimester placenta transcriptome, highlighting similarities and differences among the sexes in ongoing human pregnancies resulting in live births. Sexual dimorphism may contribute to pregnancy outcomes, including fetal growth and birth weight, which was seen in our cohort, with males significantly heavier than females at birth. This transcriptome provides a basis for development of early diagnostic tests of placental function that can indicate overall pregnancy heath, fetal-maternal health, and long term adult health.	NA
GSE66304	Knockout human reveal an essential role for Paternally Expressed 10 (PEG10) in JEG3 cell line development	Tissue- and cell-type specific regulators of alternative splicing (AS) are an essential layer of posttranscriptional gene regulation necessary for normal cellular function, patterning, and development. Here we report the Paternally Expressed 10 (PEG10) are required for patterning of multiple organs, with loss of PEG10, resulting in increasingly severe phenotypes.	knockout
GSE103327	Transcriptome profiling of HepG2 cells upon treatment of the menin-MLL inhibitor MI-503 or DMSO	Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) accounts for the majority of malignant liver tumors and results in many deaths each year, emphasizing the need for new therapies. The protein-protein interaction between menin and histone methyltransferase Mixed Lineage Leukemia 1 (MLL1) plays an important role in the development of HCC, implying that pharmacologic inhibition of this interaction could lead to new therapeutic strategy for the HCC patients. Therefore, we performed RNA sequencing experiment to determine the transcriptome change in the HepG2 cells upon treatment of MI-503, a small molecule inhibitor of the menin-MLL1 interaction with optimized drug-like properties	NA
GSE107770	Alternative splicing of differentiated myeloid cell transcripts after infection by Anaplasma phagocytophilum impacts a selective group of cellular programs	Eukaryotic proteome diversity exceeds that encoded within individual genes, and results in part from alternative splicing events of pre-messenger RNA. The diversity of these splicing events can shape the outcome in development and differentiation of normal tissues, and is important in pathogenic circumstances such as cancer and some heritable conditions. A role for alternative splicing of eukaryotic genes in response to viral and intracellular bacterial infections has only recently been recognized, and plays an important role in providing fitness for microbial survival, while potentially enhancing pathogenicity. Anaplasma phagocytophilum survives within mammalian neutrophils by reshaping transcriptional programs that govern cellular functions. We applied next generation RNAseq to ATRA-differentiated HL-60 cells established to possess transcriptional and functional responses similar to A. phagocytophilum-infected human neutrophils. This demonstrated an increase in transcripts with infection and high proportion of alternatively spliced transcript events (ASEs) for which predicted gene ontology processes were in part distinct from those identified by evaluation of single transcripts or gene-level analyses alone. The alternative isoforms are not on average shorter, and no alternative splicing in genes encoding spliceosome components is noted. Although not evident at gene-level analyses, individual spliceosome transcripts that impact nearly all spliceosome components were significantly upregulated. How the distinct GO processes predicted by ASEs are regulated by infection and whether they are relevant to fitness or pathogenicity of A. phagocytophilum should be addressed in more detailed studies.	Cancer
GSE111168	Next Generation Sequencing Facilitates Quantitative Analysis of Retinoblastoma Transcriptomes	Methods:  mRNA profiles of retinoblastoma samples and para-tumor were generated by deep sequencing, in triplicate, using Illumina. The sequence reads that passed quality filters were analyzed at the transcript isoform level with two methods: Burrows–Wheeler Aligner (BWA) followed by ANOVA (ANOVA) and TopHat followed by Cufflinks. qRT–PCR validation was performed using TaqMan and SYBR Green assays	NA
GSE46846	Induction of Prolonged Early G1 Arrest by CDK4/CDK6 Inhibition Reprograms Lymphoma Cells for Durable PI3Kδ Inhibition Through PIK3IP1	The RNA-seq data presented in this study include libraries from Mantle Cell Lymphoma (MCL) tumor cells of 4 patients, Peripheral Blood B Cells from 3 healthy volunteers and JEKO-1 MCL cell lines	NA
GSE66632	The regulartory role of ZCCHC24 in splicing machinery	ZCCHC24, Zinc Finger, CCHC domain containing 24. Showed mesenchymal cell specific expression, but no known function or phenotype associated with it. It required for mesenchymal cell growth, KD in mesenchymal cells induces drastic growth arrest. Its role in splicing machinery is not known.	NA
GSE77879	Genetic Tagging During Human Mesoderm Differentiation Reveals Tripotent Lateral Plate Mesodermal Progenitors	Although clonal studies of lineage potential have been extensively applied to organ specific stem and progenitor cells, much less is known about the clonal origins of lineages formed from the germ layers in early embryogenesis.  We applied lentiviral tagging followed by vector integration site analysis (VISA) with high-throughput sequencing to investigate the ontogeny of the hematopoietic, endothelial and mesenchymal lineages as they emerge from human embryonic mesoderm. In contrast to studies that have used VISA to track differentiation of self-renewing stem cell clones that amplify significantly over time, we focused on a population of progenitor clones with limited self-renewal capability. Our analyses uncovered the critical influence of sampling on the interpretation of lentiviral tag sharing, particularly among complex populations with minimal clonal duplication. By applying a quantitative framework to estimate the degree of undersampling we revealed the existence of tripotent mesodermal progenitors derived from pluripotent stem cells, and the subsequent bifurcation of their differentiation into exclusively bipotent endothelial/hematopoietic or endothelial/mesenchymal progenitors.	NA
GSE98836	EWSR1 influences alternative splicing through direct and indirect mechanisms	FET family RNA binding proteins are implicated in cancer and neurological disorders and yet their biological function is incompletely understood. We used cross-linking and immunoprecipitation followed by high-throughput sequencing (HITS-CLIP) as well as gene expression and alternative splicing analysis by RNAseq to characterize the molecular function of the FET family RNA binding protein EWSR1. In HeLA cells, EWSR1 binding is enriched at 3’UTRs and at both 5’ exon/intron and 3’ intron/exon boundaries.  RNAs bound by EWSR1 are functionally enriched for RNA binding and RNA processing genes, suggesting a key role for EWSR1 in RNA regulation. While EWSR1 knock-down altered expression of hundreds of genes, only a subset of the transcripts for these genes were directly bound by EWSR1. By overlapping the HITS-CLIP data with the RNAseq splicing analysis we identified genes where EWSR1 binding is more likely to directly affect splicing.  EWSR1 regulated splicing events were varied and included exon inclusion, alternative 3 exon usage and intron retention. These  results indicate that EWSR1 has pleiotropic effects on splicing and that these effects are caused both by direct regulation of splicing and through effects on a large number of RNAs that themselves code for splicing effectors. Further understanding of this complex splicing regulation network may be important to disentangle the role of EWSR1 in multiple human diseases.	Cancer/knock-down
GSE102187	Transcriptional Modulation of Human Endogenous Retroviruses in Primary CD4+ T Cells Following Vorinostat Treatment	Purpose: In an HIV cure setting, Vorinostat may provide the “shock” capable of flushing HIV out of the persistent reservoir, while antiretroviral therapy is used to prevent new infections.  However, this drug may modulate the expression of human endogenous retroviruses (HERVs).  This study demonstrates significant modulation of HERVs and suggests that they should be considered as off-target effects of this drug treatment. Methods: Peripheral blood mononuclear cells were collected from 4 healthy donors.  Naive CD4 T cells were isolated and utilized to assess HERV dysregulation after treatment with Vorinostat.  Cells were collected for study and exposed to a dose of Vorinostat (10uM dose over a 24 hour period).  After this, RNA was extracted from cells and their untreated paired counterparts for deep sequencing by Expression Analysis. Sequence reads that passed quality filters were mapped to the HERVd reference database using Bowtie and counted using HTSeq.  Any HERV which did not achieve at least 1 count per million mapped and counted reads in at least 4 samples was discarded.  Differential expression was performed upon the filtered dataset with edgeR and using TMM normalization. Results: Using an custom built data analysis pipeline, ~100 million reads per sample were mapped to the HERVd reference database and identified 10784 distinct dysregulated elements Bowtie/HTSeq workflow. Differential expression analysis was performed between vorinostat treated and untreated conditions which demonstrated 2102 dysregulated HERV elements with 1007 downregulated and 1095 upregulated (FDR < 0.05) with EdgeR.  Results were further subset with a log2FC ± 3 which resulted in 451 upregulated and 363 downregulated HERV elements from 81 and 82 distinct families respectively.  HERV elements from the LTR12 family were by far the most dramatically upregulated in family frequency and fold change magnitude.  Further confirmation with droplet digital PCR confirmed upregulation of LTR12 elements and demonstrated an exponential dose response curve with HERV expression found at even moderate doses (334nM) of vorinostat treatment. Conclusions: This study represents the first detailed analysis of HERV dysregulation following vorinostat treatment using the untargeted approach of total RNA-Seq.  These results demonstrate that vorinostat dysregulates multiple HERV families with a propensity to upregulate members of the LTR12 HERV family.  This study also provides a methodology to analyze HERV dysregulation in future treatments with vorinostat or other drugs by providing a mechanism to choose primer and probe sets which will properly represent HERV dysregulation as expression across an HERV is not uniform or continuous.  Finally, this work suggests that HERV dysregulation by vorinostat treatment should be considered an off-target effect of this drug and HERV elements, such as LTR12, should be monitored as biomarkers during shock and kill clinical trials with HDAC inhibitors and that trial subjects should be screened to explore further HIV:HERV interactions.	NA
GSE103940	Integration of metabolomics and transcriptomic expression profiling discloses pivotal role of arachidonic acid metabolism pathway in response to acute hypoxia exposure	Background: Arachidonic acid (AA) metabolism pathway is dominant in metabolic programming after hypoxia exposure, but its biological function is disputed and require in-depth studies. In this research, we aimed at integrating plasma metabolomics and transcriptomics approaches to systematically explore its roles in response to acute hypoxia based on model of acute high-altitude exposure. Methods: Blood samples were taken from 53 enrolled subjects before and after their exposure to high altitude. Ultra-performance liquid chromatography- quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry and RNA sequencing were performed to acquire corresponding metabolomic and transcriptomic profiling along with hypoxia exposure, separately. Influential modules comprising essential metabolites and genes were identified by weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) after integrating metabolic information with phenotypic and transcriptomic datasets, respectively. Results: Enrolled individuals showed significant alterations in heart rate, SpO2, hemoglobin and Lake Louise Score (LLS) in response to hypoxia. Metabolomics profiling demonstrated that AA metabolism pathway was remarkable in these metabolic alterations. Integrated analysis of metabolomic and transcriptomic data revealed that increasing AA metabolism pathway might count for gas transport incapacitation and disorders in hemoglobin metabolism under hypoxia stimuli. Moreover, identified in further analysis and another cohort, excessively elevated AA metabolism pathway was involved in poor response to hypoxia. Conclusion: Our study, for the first time, constructed the maps of AA metabolism pathway in response to hypoxia; and revealed the crosstalk between phenotypic variation to hypoxia and AA metabolism pathway. These findings will not only advanced pathophysiological mechanisms for acute hypoxic diseases, but provided new insights into critical roles of AA metabolism pathway in development and prevention of these diseases.	pathway
GSE106159	Next Generation Sequencing Facilitates Quantitative Analysis of Wild Type and TWIST1 knock out U87 xenograft mice transcriptomes	Purpose:Next-generation sequencing has revolutionized sytems-level celluar pathway analysis. The goals of this study are to compare the U87 cell xenograft GBM mice (U87 cell line) to TWIST1 knock out U87 cell xenograft GBM mice (TWIST1 knock out U87 cell line) using their transcriptomes	knock out
GSE106500	Immune Profiling of Premalignant Lesions in Patients with Lynch Syndrome 	mRNA expression from adenomas of patients with Lynch Syndrome and Familial Adenomatous Polyposis	Lynch syndrome
GSE112695	RNA-seq analysis of Retinoic Acid and Non-treated Control hiPSCs	The goal of this experiment is to identify down stream gene networks differentially regulated upon treatment of retinoic acid in hiPSC derived cardiomyocytes after 30 days of differentiation	NA
GSE114553	Induction of human SST and PV neurons by expressing a single transcription factor LHX6	To systematically explore the effect of LHX6 on neural development and differentiation, we performed RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq) of hPSC-derived GINs at day 50 in vitro.RNAseq results could also confirm alteration of GINs identity with the overexpression of LHX6.	NA
GSE95180	Nickel exposure induces persistent mesenchymal phenotype in human lung epithelial cells through epigenetic activation of ZEB1	Purpose: Environmentally induced diseases, including cancer typically develop long after the exposure has occurred. However, most of the toxicological studies are conducted during active exposure. Therefore, environmental exposure-induced adverse effects that persist after cessation of exposure is poorly understood. Methods: Immortalized human bronchial epithelial cells (BEAS-2B) were cultured in Dulbecco’s Modified Eagle’s Medium (DMEM, Cellgro) supplemented with 1% Penicillin Streptomycin and 10% Fetal Bovine Serum (FBS, Atlanta Biologicals) at 37 degree C and 5 % CO2. For Ni exposure, various concentrations of NiCl2 (Sigma N6136) was added to the media and the cells were cultured for 6 weeks. Following exposure, the cells were washed and cultured in Ni-free medium for 2 weeks to obtain the Ni-washed-out cells. To obtain homogenous populations of Ni-exposed cells, the cells exposed to 100 mM NiCl2 for 6 weeks were plated in 15 cm plates in Ni-free medium at the rate of 1000, 500, 100 and 50 cells per plate. Nicely separated single colonies were picked and the populations were expanded in Ni-free medium. Results: Here we report that Ni, an environmentally prevalent, low-mutagenic carcinogen causes epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) that persists even after the exposure has ceased. Ni-induced persistent EMT induction is dependent on the upregulation of ZEB1, an EMT master regulator. We found that Ni exposure resolved the bivalent chromatin environment of ZEB1 gene, thereby keeping it in a permanent ‘on’ state. The continuously expressing ZEB1 downregulated its negative regulators, thus establishing a self-sustaining positive regulatory loop. Given the importance of EMT in a number of diseases including asthma, pulmonary fibrosis, development of premalignancy, carcinogenesis and metastasis, we believe that persistent EMT induction through epigenetic activation of ZEB1 is a major step in Ni-induced human diseases.	Cancer
GSE99085	Human serum and heparin-free platelet lysate as appropriate xeno-free alternatives for production of human MuStem cell batches	Purpose: The population of muscle-derived stem cells called MuStem cells is presented as promising candidate for cell-based therapy of muscle diseases. To validate if this agent can be really presented as therapeutic product and so to be eligible to a future clinical use, it is now required to demonstrate beforehand an efficacy with cells prepared in compliance with good manufacturing practices (GMPs). The aim of the current study was to evaluate the use of two xeno-free blood derivatives corresponding to human serum (HS) and human platelet lysate (hPL) as alternatives to controverted but until now used fetal bovine serum (FBS) for isolation and expansion of human MuStem (hMuStem) cells.  Methods: A comparative study was performed with hMuStem cells isolated and in vitro expanded by using commercially available HS and hPL to determine its impact on their proliferation rates, clonogenicity, myogenic commitment level and oligopotency with regard to results obtained under FBS-based medium. Also, their respective phenotype and global gene expression patterns were investigated by flow cytometry and high throughput 3’ digital gene expression RNA-sequencing in order to define a possible differential impact of the human nutrients tested.  Results: Comparatively to FBS-based medium, use of HS- and hPL-supplemented ones efficiently supported long-term proliferation of hMuStem cells and enhanced clonogenicity, without main modification of their expression profile and allowing besides limiting the supplementation in growth factors. In vitro differentiation assay combined to transforming growth factor β1 (TGF-β1)-depletion experiments showed a lower myogenic commitment level as well as fusion ability of hMuStem cells when cultured with hPL-based medium according to a TGF-β1-independent process. Use of hPL-derived 3D hydrogel or fibrinogen-depleted hPL demonstrated that heparin-free hPL derivatives maintain consequent myogenic differentiation potential. In addition, the reduced myogenicity was shown to be rapidly reversible following replacement of hPL by HS or fibrinogen-depleted hPL.  Conclusions: All together, our original findings position HS and hPL as efficient and suitable alternatives to FBS for preparation of hMuStem cell batch in compliance with GMPs.	NA
GSE100882	SAMHD1 is recurrently mutated in T-cell prolymphocytic leukemia [RNA-seq]	We identified novel recurrent genetic lesions in T-PLL affecting genes involved in JAK/STAT signaling (PTPRC), epigenetic regulation (PRDM2), or DNA damage repair (SAMHD1, PARP10, HERC1, HERC2). Mutations of the tumor suppressor gene SAMHD1 causing amino-acid exchanges or protein truncations as well as copy number variations in SAMHD1 were seen in 20% of cases.	NA
GSE102881	Transcriptomic analysis of healthy donor and Sickle Cell Disease (SCD) hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells	Human hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells (HSPCs) were either collected from bone marrow or mobilized from healthy donors and SCD patients. We performed RNA-seq analysis on RNA extracted from purified CD34+ HSPCs coming from the different sources to compare their gene expression profiles.	NA
GSE107376	Gene expression profile of human placenta from T. Cruzi infected mothers	Background. More than one million women in fertile age are infected with Trypanosoma cruzi worldwide. Anti-T.cruzi seropositivity in mothers has been associated with adverse pregnancy outcome but there is still a knowledge gap regarding this effect. Our aim was to compare the gene expression profile of term placental environment from T. cruzi seropositive (SP) and seronegative (SN) mothers.   Methods. A RNA-Seq was performed in 9 pools of 2 different placental RNA samples each: 3 belonging to placentas from SN and 6 from SP. Each pool consisted of a binomial of a female/male newborn and a vaginal/caesarean delivery. None of the newborns resulted infected.  Results.  Only 42 genes showed a significant fold change between SP and SN groups. Among the down-regulated genes were KISS1 and CGB5. In the up-regulated genes group were: KIF12, HLA-G, PRG2, TAC3, FN1 and ATXN3L. To identify pathways significantly associated with maternal T. cruzi-infection, a gene-set association analysis was implemented. The placental environment transcriptomic profile of SP consisted of an enrichment in immunological genes sets (inflammatory response and lymphocytic activation were over-expressed) whereas numerous biosynthetic processes were down-regulated.   Conclusions. It is worth noting that several differentially expressed genes in SP placentas code for proteins associated to preeclampsia and miscarriage. This first transcriptomics study in human term placental environment from non-infected deliveries shows a placental response that may affect the faetus while protecting it from the parasite infection; this host response  could be responsible for the low rate of congenital transmission observed in human chronic Chagas disease.    Background. More than one million women in fertile age are infected with Trypanosoma cruzi worldwide. Anti-T.cruzi seropositivity in mothers has been associated with adverse pregnancy outcome but there is still a knowledge gap regarding this effect. Our aim was to compare the gene expression profile of term placental environment from T. cruzi seropositive (SP) and seronegative (SN) mothers.   Methods. A RNA-Seq was performed in 9 pools of 2 different placental RNA samples each: 3 belonging to placentas from SN and 6 from SP. Each pool consisted of a binomial of a female/male newborn and a vaginal/caesarean delivery. None of the newborns resulted infected.  Results.  Only 42 genes showed a significant fold change between SP and SN groups. Among the down-regulated genes were KISS1 and CGB5. In the up-regulated genes group were: KIF12, HLA-G, PRG2, TAC3, FN1 and ATXN3L. To identify pathways significantly associated with maternal T. cruzi-infection, a gene-set association analysis was implemented. The placental environment transcriptomic profile of SP consisted of an enrichment in immunological genes sets (inflammatory response and lymphocytic activation were over-expressed) whereas numerous biosynthetic processes were down-regulated.   Conclusions. It is worth noting that several differentially expressed genes in SP placentas code for proteins associated to preeclampsia and miscarriage. This first transcriptomics study in human term placental environment from non-infected deliveries shows a placental response that may affect the faetus while protecting it from the parasite infection; this host response  could be responsible for the low rate of congenital transmission observed in human chronic Chagas disease.	pathway
GSE107980	RING-finger protein 6 amplification activates JAK/STAT3 pathway by modifying SHP-1 ubiquitylation and associates with poor outcome in colorectal cancer	To elucidate whether  RNF6 plays a role in  colorectal cancer tumorigenesis, a RNA-seq analysis was performed to compare the gene expression profiles of  RNF6 siRNA and control siRNA transfectants.	Cancer/Colorectal cancer/pathway
GSE108694	Gene expression analysis of human CD8+ T cells treated with a DOT1L inhibitor	Adoptive T cell therapy (ACT) is a promising therapeutic approach for cancer patients.  The use of allogeneic T cell grafts will improve its applicability and versatility provided that inherent allogeneic responses are controlled.  Through extensive chemical probe screening, we found that inhibiting DOT1L, a histone H3-lysine 79 methyltransferase, alleviated allogeneic T cell responses.  DOT1L inhibition with SGC0946 selectively ameliorated low-avidity T cell responses but not high-avidity antitumor T cell responses mediated by the high-affinity T cell receptor or chimeric antigen receptor.  The inhibition of DOT1L in T cells prevented the development of graft-versus-host disease while retaining potent antitumor activity in xenogeneic ACT models.  These results suggest that DOT1L inhibition may enable the safe and effective use of allogeneic antitumor T cells by suppressing unwanted immunological reactions in ACT.	Cancer
GSE109870	transcriptome studies of BRD4 inhibitor BDF-1253 on renal clear carcinoma 786-O cells	As an epigenetic reader, BRD4 is important for the recognition of acetylated lysines and regulation of transcription. As BRD4 regulates the expression of several survival genes, such as c-Myc and Bcl-2, which is vital for the survival of tumor cells, then it is closely involved in various kinds of cancers. Accumulating evidence has proven that BRD4 could serve as a novel anti-cancer pharmaceutical target, and small-molecular BRD4 inhibitors have promising potentials in the treatment of BRD4-related cancers and other diseases. In this study, a novel category of BRD4 inhibitors, which are originated from an approved drug Nitroxoline and its analogues, were synthesized and evaluated by biochemical and cellular assays, as well as the method of crystallography and xenograft mice models. In renal cell carcinoma cell lines, these compounds exhibited efficient inhibition against the expression and protein abundance of BRD4 downstream genes. Moreover, the complex crystal structures of several compounds in this series with the first bromodomain of BRD4 were solved, which revealed the binding mechanism of this novel category of BRD4 inhibitors and facilitated further structural modifications. This series of novel BRD4 inhibitors is promising to become drug candidates for the treatment of renal cell carcinoma after further development and assessments.	Cancer/Renal cell carcinoma
GSE110935	The role of CFTR in islet function	Cystic fibrosis (CF)-related diabetes (CFRD) is an increasingly common and devastating comorbidity of CF, affecting ~35% of adults with CF. However, the underlying causes of CFRD are unclear. Here, we examined cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) islet expression and whether the CFTR participates in islet endocrine cell function using murine models of b cell CFTR deletion, and normal and CF human pancreas and islets. Specific deletion of CFTR from murine b cells did not affect b cell function. In human islets, CFTR mRNA was minimally expressed, and CFTR protein/electrical activity was not detected. Isolated CF/CFRD islets demonstrated appropriate insulin and glucagon secretion with few changes in key islet-regulatory transcripts. Furthermore, ~65% of b cell area was lost in CF donors, compounded by pancreatic remodeling and immune infiltration of the islet. These results indicate that CFRD is not caused by intrinsic islet dysfunction from CFTR mutation, but rather, by b cell loss and intra-islet inflammation in the setting of a complex pleiotropic disease	NA
GSE111084	A20 regulates canonical wnt-signaling through an interaction with RIPK4	The role of A20 in regulating canonical wnt signaling was investigated in colon cancer cell lines (RKO) by RNAseq	Cancer
GSE113195	Sex differences in transcriptomic profiles in aged kidney cells of renin lineage	Renin expressing cells in the kidney’s juxta-glomeruluar compartment likely also serve as progenitors for adult glomerular cells in disease. Although these cells of renin lineage (CoRL) decrease in number with advancing kidney age, accompanied by less responsiveness to typical stimuli such as ACE-inhibition, mechanisms and the impact of sex as a biological variable with age are not known. Accordingly, labeled CoRL were sorted from individual young (2m) and aged (27m) male and female Ren1cCre|ZsGreen reporter mice, and their transcriptomic profiles analyzed by RNA seq. When both aged female and male mice were combined, there were 48 differentially expressed genes (DEG) compared to young mice. However, when compared to their young sex-matched mice, aged female and male mice had 159 and 503 DEGs respectively. In addition to marked differences in individual genes between aged female and male mice, gene ontology analysis showed major pathway differences by sex. The majority of DEGs in one sex did not significantly change or changed in the opposite direction in the other sex. These results show that in CoRL of advanced age, individual genes and gene ontologies change, but differ between female and male mice, highlighting sex related differences the aging process.	pathway
GSE79544	Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis bronchoalveolar lavage cells RNA-seq indicates macrophage expression of pro-inflammatory M1/M2 activation concomitant with radical species metabolism inhibition	Current concepts of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) are that microscopic injury drives alveolar epithelial cell dysregulated activation and epithelial mesenchymal transition, ensuing fibrocyte recruitment,  fibroblast proliferation and ECM deposition. With the background that IPF is also characterized by chronic accumulation of activated alveolar macrophages (aMAC) in the lower respiratory tract, we assessed IPFaMAC gene expression to identify patterns of activation, by RNA-seq using Illumina platform. To this we evaluated a population of 7 normal smoking controls and 16  IPF smoking patients. All IPFs had abnormal lung function and bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) showing  >80% macrophage counts and augmented spontaneous O2 radical release. RNA was extracted from whole BAL cells. Reads were mapped onto the UCSC mRNA database (GRCh37/hg19 version), and transcripts were aggregated by gene symbol, obtaining a final 19,723 unique protein-coding gene ID list, used for further analysis.	Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis
GSE104604	Next Generation Sequencing upon siRNA-mediated knockdown of EIF5A in MCF-7 cells.	The goal of this study is to examine the effect of EIF5A knockdown on the MCF-7 transcriptome.	siRNA/knockdown
GSE104756	Differential gene expression tools exhibit substandard performance for long non-coding RNA-sequencing data	Paired End PolyA-+ RNA-sequencing of NGP cells with and without NGP treatment in 10 replicates.	NA
GSE111538	RNA-seq data of adipocytes co-cocultured with OVCAR5 in Boyden chamber (4d)	We indirectly cocultured OVCAR5-RFP cells using a 0.45 micron Boyden chamber with or without adipocytes for 4 days, collected the RNA from adipocytes, and performed RNA-seq	NA
GSE90944	RNA-seq in HT-29 colorectal cancer cells after F. nucleatum treatment	To elucidate whether F. nucleatum plays a role in colorectal cancer tumorigenesis,  RNA-seq analysis was performed to compare the gene expression profiles of F. nucleatum treated HT-29 cell line or not.	Cancer/Colorectal cancer
GSE77261	Genome-wide expression change by SHARPIN knockdown in MCF-7 cells	We aim to investigate the role of SHARPIN in breast cancer progression. MCF-7 cells were used as the model and SHARPIN was silenced by siRNA.SHARPIN (SHANK-Associated RH Domain Interactor) is also named as SIPL1 and HSIPL1. The  gene is located in Chr 8. SHARPIN protein is shown to regulate cell adhesion and migration. Besides, SHARPIN is proved to the component of the LUBAC complex and is necessary for NKFB function, while SHARPIN KO mice will lead to chronic dermatitis and immune deficiency in B cells.	knockdown
GSE82207	Total RNA sequencing of WT intestinal orgaonids.	We report elevated expression levels of genes involved in small intestine or colon regional identity. hESCs were differentiated to colonigc organoids, where the total RNA was extracted from.	NA
GSE92340	Patient iPSC-Derived Neurons for Disease Modeling of Frontotemporal Dementia with Mutation in CHMP2B	In order to obtain an overview of gene expression changes in CHMP2B-dependent frontotemporal dementia (FTD3), RNA sequencing analyses were performed in FTD3 patient neurons compared to their gene-corrected isogenic controls.	NA
GSE92724	Dermal endothelial cells of type 2 diabetic patients	The prevalence of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2D) is increasing constantly and various risk factors such as obesity, aging, nutritional states and physical inactivity, in addition to genetic pre-dispositions in different populations has been identified. The consequences of high blood glucose include damaged blood vessels, leading to arteriosclerosis and chronic diabetic microangiopathies. These changes lead to occlusive angiopathy, altered vascular permeability, or tissue hypoxia, resulting in complications such as heart disease, strokes, kidney disease, blindness, impaired wound healing, chronic skin ulcers, or amputations. We isolated dermal endothelial cells from diabetic patients (Pat) and control individuals (Ctrl) and performed RNASeq to compare differentially expressed genes.	Diabetes mellitus/Obesity/Type 2 diabetes mellitus
GSE93069	Transcriptome sequencing (RNA-Seq) of non-tumor kidney tissues from 36 patients undergoing nephrectomy for exploring the metabolic mechanism of sorafenib and identifying the major transcriptional regulation factors in sorafenib metabolism in kidney	The multi-kinase inhibitor drug sorafenib is used as first line treatment for hepatocellular carcinoma and advanced renal cell carcinoma. Sorafenib mainly undergos cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4-mediated oxidation and uridine diphosphate glucuronosyl transferase (UGT) 1A9-mediated glucuronidation in liver, but the biotransformation of sorafenib in kidney remains unclear. Therefore, we integrated the mRNA expression data of 36 kidney samples and the corresponding metabolic activities for sorafenib to study the metabolic mechanism of sorafenib in kidney.	Renal cell carcinoma
GSE94053	A sister of NANOG regulates genes expressed in pre-implantation human development	We examined the ability of human NANOGNB to regulate gene expression by ectopically expressing the gene in human dermal fibroblasts.	NA
GSE102220	Transcriptome-wide analysis of the role of HTLV-1 Tax PBM in T-Cells from infected humanized-mice (hu-Mice)	Human T-lymphotropic virus type 1 (HTLV-1) is associated with the development of Adult T-cell Leukemia, an aggressive CD4+ T-cells malignancy. Here, we have developed a new procedure to infect humanized mice with proviruses displaying specific mutations, such as one leading to the loss of the PDZ domain-binding motif (PBM) of Tax. In order to specifically analyze the in vivo role of the PBM of Tax, a comparative study of infected hu-mice was performed. We used next-generation sequencing to perform genome-wide transcriptomic analysis of T-cells infected with wild-type HTLV-1 virus or with virus bearing a mutated form of Tax lacking the PBM. Our results suggest that Tax PBM might be involved in the regulation of genes implicated in proliferation, apoptosis and cytoskeleton organization.	NA
GSE103763	Genome-wide analysis of herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) infected cells	The goal of this study was to compare the whole transcriptional profile (RNA-seq) of herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) infected and mock infected human fibroblast KMB17 strain at 48 hours post infection.There is increasing evidence that circular RNAs (circRNAs) are involved in diverse pathogenesis processes; however, their roles in virus infection remain unclear. Here, we profiled global changes of circRNAs, genes and microRNA (miRNAs) under herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) infection by RNA-seq. Numerous dysregulated transcripts comprised of 536 circRNAs, 3,885 genes and 207 miRNAs were found during viral infection. The dysregulated genes were enriched to NOD-like receptor signaling pathway, Jak-STAT signaling pathway and pathways of apoptosis, cell cycle progression and cell death, all of which may be implicated in viral pathogenesis and cellular immunity. Further integration analysis of circRNAs, genes and miRNAs reveals putative involvement of circRNAs in viral pathogenesis and antiviral immunity by circRNA-miRNA-gene regulatory axis. This work provides a comprehensive view for dysregulated circRNAs induced by HSV-1 and their interplay with miRNAs and genes, thus offering new insights into the mechanisms of interactions between HSV-1 and its host.	pathway
GSE107981	Effector and regulatory T cells roll at high shear stress by inducible tether and sling formation	The adaptive immune response involves T cell differentiation and migration to  sites of inflammation. T cell trafficking is initiated by tethering and rolling on  inflamed endothelium. Tethers and slings, discovered in neutrophils, facilitate  cell rolling at high shear stress. Here we demonstrate that PSGL-1 binding to  P- or E-selectins and the ability to form tethers and slings during rolling are  highly inducible in T-helper-1 (Th1), Th17 and regulatory (Treg), but less in  Th2 cells. In vivo, endogenous Tregs rolled stably in cremaster venules at  physiological shear stress. Quantitative dynamic footprinting nanoscopy of  Th1, Th17 and Tregs uncovered the formation of multiple tethers. Importantly,  human Th1 cells also showed tethers and slings. RNA-Seq revealed that  sling-forming cells induced genetic pathways related to cell motility. We  conclude that differentiated CD4 T cells stabilize rolling by inducible tether  and sling formation. These phenotypic changes approximate the adhesion  phenotype of neutrophils and support CD4 T cell access to sites of  inflammation in non-lymphoid tissues.	pathway
GSE108013	Microenvironmental-derived Regulation of HIF-Signaling Drives Transcriptional Heterogeneity in Glioblastoma Multiforme	The evolving and highly heterogeneous nature of malignant brain tumors underlies their limited response to therapy and poor prognosis. In addition to genetic alterations, highly dynamic processes such as transcriptional and metabolic reprograming play an important role in the development of tumor heterogeneity. The present study reports an adaptive mechanism in which the metabolic environment of malignant glioma drives transcriptional reprogramming. Multi-regional analysis of a glioblastoma patient biopsy revealed a metabolic landscape marked by varying stages of hypoxia and creatine enrichment. Creatine treatment and metabolism was further shown to promote a synergistic effect through up-regulation of the glycine-cleavage system and chemical regulation of Prolyl-Hydroxylase Domain (PHD). Consequently, creatine maintained a reduction of reactive oxygen species and change of the a-ketoglutarate/succinate ratio leading to an inhibition of the HIF-signaling in primary tumor cell lines. These effects shifted the transcriptional pattern toward a proneural subtype and reduced the rate of cell migration and invasion in vitro.	Glioma
GSE110736	Next Generation Sequencing Facilitates Quantitative Analysis of transcriptomes of human cord blood CD34+ cells treated with HDAC5 inhibitor	We have used RNA-seq based transcriptome characterization to analyze differentiated gene expression in human cord blood CD34+ cells treated with vehicle control or HDAC5 inhibitor LMK235	NA
GSE114051	Discovery of a Drug Candidate for GLIS3-Associated Diabetes	Through development and use of a minimal component protocol for derivation of late stage pancreatic progenitors and beta-like cells, we compared WT and GLIS3-/- pancreatic cells at different stages and discovered that GLIS3-/- cells show an ectopic activation of TGF-beta signaling.	NA
GSE114360	RNA transcriptome sequencing analysis of SGC-7901 cells transfected with tcons_00001221 shRNA or control shRNA	An RNA transcriptome sequencing analysis was performed in SGC-7901 cells that were transfected with tcons_00001221 shRNA or control shRNA.	NA
GSE110713	PTHrP overexpression in MCF7 cells	A PTHrP construct expressing full-length secreted PTHrP (-36-139aa) was stably expressed in MCF7 cells. The goal of the study was to determine the gene targets of PTHrP in human MCF7 breast cancer cells.	Breast cancer/Cancer
GSE63015	Self-organization of polarized cerebellar plate neuroepithelium in three-dimensional culture of human pluripotent stem cells	During cerebellar development, the main portion of the cerebellar plate neuroepithelium (NE) gives birth to Purkinje cells and interneurons, while the germinal zone at its dorsal edge, called the rhombic lip (RL), generates granule cells and cerebellar nuclei neurons. However, it remains elusive how these components work together to generate the intricate structure of the cerebellar anlage. In this study, we found that a polarized cerebellar anlage structure self-organizes in three-dimensional (3D) human ES cell (hESC) culture. This NE is capable of differentiating into electrophysiologically functional Purkinje cells. The addition of FGF19 promotes spontaneous generation of dorsoventrally polarized NE structures containing cerebellar and basal plates. Furthermore, further addition of SDF1 promoted the generation of stratified cerebellar plate NE with RL-like germinal zones self-forming at the edge. Thus, hESC-derived cerebellar progenitors exhibit substantial self-organizing potential for generating a polarized structure reminiscent of the early human cerebellar anlage at the first trimester.	NA
GSE63744	Large-scale profiling of intracellular signalling pathway activation reveals major distinctions between airway smooth muscle cells of asthmatics and non-asthmatics.	Signalling pathways regulate all major cellular events in health and disease, including asthma development and progression. Complexity of human intracellular signalization can be explored using novel systemic approaches that exploit whole-transcriptome analysis. Cap-analysis-of-gene-expression (CAGE) is a method of choice for generating transcriptome libraries, as it interrogates only terminally capped mRNAs that have the highest probability to be translated into protein. In this study we for the first time systematically profiled differentially activated Intracellular Signalling Pathways (ISPs) in cultured primary human airway smooth muscle (ASM) cells from asthmatic (n=8) and non-asthmatic (n=6) subjects in a high-throughput assay, highlighting asthma-specific co-regulatory patterns. CAGE-libraries from primary human ASM cells were subject to massive parallel next generation sequencing, and a comprehensive analysis of ISP activation was performed using a recently developed technique OncoFinder. Analysis of 270 ISPs led to discovery of multiple pathways clearly distinguishing asthmatic from normal cells. In particular, we found 146 (p<0.05) and 103 (p<0.01) signalling pathways differentially active in asthmatic vs non-asthmatic samples. We identified seven clusters of coherently acting pathways functionally related to the disease. Pathways down-regulated in asthma mostly represented cell death-promoting pathways, whereas the up-regulated ones were mainly involved in cell growth and proliferation, inflammatory response and some specific reactions, including smooth muscle contraction and hypoxia - related signalization. Most of interactions uncovered in this study were not previously associated with asthma, suggesting that these results may be pivotal to development of novel therapeutic strategies that specifically address the ISP signature linked with asthma pathophysiology.	pathway
GSE67128	Comparative whole-transcriptomic analysis between normal and AKAP-Lbc-depleted human embryonic stem cells	Human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) have the unique property of immortality, ability to infinitely self-renew and survive in vitro. In contrast to tumor-deribed cells, their immortality are free from any genomic abberations. Instead, they depend on the AKAP-Lbc/Rho signaling cascade. To understand the downstream way, we performed RNA-seq analyses between normal and AKAP-Lbc-depleted hESCs using the doxycyclin-inducible gene silensing strategy.	NA
GSE71862	Differential Gene Expression between MCF10A and MCF7 cells	These RNA-seq data were generated to correlate with genomic interaction data in a related Hi-C analysis.  MCF10A is a normal-like mammary epithelial cell line and MCF7 is a transformed estrogen responsive breast cancer cell line derived from a metastatic site; both are commonly used in models of breast cancer progression.  Analysis revealed a set of genes related to repression of WNT signalling that were both up-regulated in MCF7 and located in genomic regions that had transitioned from closed to open structure in MCF7. 	Breast cancer/Cancer
GSE77938	Transcriptome profiling of human keratoconus corneas through RNA sequencing identifies collagen synthesis disruption and downregulation of core elements of TGF-β, Hippo, and Wnt pathways	To understand better the factors contributing to keratoconus (KTCN), we used RNA sequencing to perform a transcriptome profile of human KTCN corneas. Over 82% of the genes and almost 75% of the transcripts detected as differentially expressed in KTCN and non-KTCN corneas were confirmed in the replication study using another set of samples. We used these differentially expressed genes to generate a network of KTCN-deregulated genes. We found an extensive disruption of collagen synthesis and maturation pathways, as well as downregulation of the core elements of the TGF-β, Hippo, and Wnt signaling pathways influencing corneal organization. We identified long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) and conducted a computational analysis of their potential functions, and found that lncRNAs regulated the processing and expression of the aforementioned genes. This first comprehensive transcriptome profiling of human KTCN corneas points further to a complex etiology of KTCN.	pathway
GSE79395	Knockdown of ADNP in HCT116 colon cancer cells	RNASeq data from replicates after siRNA mediated knockdown of human ADNP in HCT116 colon cancer cells	Cancer/knockdown
GSE79988	The myelin protein PMP2 is regulated by SOX10 and drives melanoma cell invasion	The transcription factor SRY(sex related protein-Y)-box10 (SOX10) plays a key role in the development of melanocytes and peripheral glial cells from neural crest precursors. Recently, we and other groups found SOX10 to be involved in melanoma initiation, proliferation, invasion, and survival. However, specific mediators which impart the oncogenic role of SOX10 in melanoma remain widely unknown. To identify potential target genes of SOX10, we performed RNA sequencing to analyze genome-wide expression alterations after ectopic expression of SOX10. Among nine genes differentially regulated by SOX10, only peripheral myelin protein 2 (PMP2) was found upregulated in several other melanoma cell lines. PMP2 is one of the most abundant myelin proteins in glial cells and is necessary for the formation and maintenance of the myelin sheath. We detected PMP2 expression in a subset of human melanoma cell lines while it was absent in human melanocytes and fibroblasts. Direct binding of SOX10 to the PMP2 promoter was shown by chromatin immunoprecipitation and electrophoretic shift assay. In three-dimensional spheroid assays, we found that PMP2 overexpression increased melanoma cell invasion. In conclusion, we identified PMP2 as target gene of SOX10 and propose a novel role for PMP2 in melanoma cell invasion.	Melanoma
GSE85857	Runx1 stabilizes the mammary epithelial cell phenotype and prevents epithelial to mesenchymal transition	The Runx1 transcription factor is essential for hematopoietic differentiation and mutations underlie various leukemias. Here we demonstrate a role for Runx1 in the MCF10 cell series model of breast cancer progression. The highest level of Runx1 that occurs in normal like mammary epithelial cells (MCF10A) is decreased in tumorigenic (MCF10AT1) and metastatic (MCF10CA1a) breast cancer cells. We show that depletion of Runx1 in MCF10A cells results in striking changes in cell morphology and induction of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) via several signaling pathways. Analyses of breast tumors and patient survival data reveal that loss of Runx1 is associated with poor prognosis and decreased survival. Re-expressing Runx1 in MCF10AT1 breast cancer cells restores the epithelial phenotype. These results identify a novel function for Runx1 in sustaining normal epithelial morphology and preventing EMT. These mechanisms suggest Runx1 levels in early stage tumors can be used as a prognostic indicator of tumor progression.	Breast cancer/Cancer/pathway
GSE91000	Cystathionine-β-Synthase Promotes Colon Carcinogenesis	Purpose: The goal of this study is to investigate the role of CBS enzyme in colorectal carcinogenesis Methods: RNA-Seq transcriptome analysis of CBS-overexpression in NCM356 cels compared to control vector cells	NA
GSE102155	Mitotically associated long non-coding RNA, MANCR regulates cell cycle in triple negative breast cancer cells 	Triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) is an aggressive breast cancer subtype that is difficult to treat as it is unresponsive to hormone-therapy; therefore, it is imperative to identify novel, targetable regulators of progression in TNBC. Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) are important regulators in breast cancer and have great potential as therapeutic targets; however, little is known about how the majority of lncRNAs function within TNBC cells. In this study, we identify a novel lncRNA, MANCR (LINC00704), which is upregulated in TNBC cells and breast cancer patient samples. Depletion of MANCR in TNBC cells results in a significant decrease in cell proliferation and viability with a concomitant increase in DNA damage. Transcriptome-wide sequencing following MANCR knockdown reveals significant differences in the expression of >2000 genes, and gene set enrichment analysis identifies changes in multiple categories related to cell cycle regulation. Furthermore, MANCR expression is highest in mitotic cells by both RT-qPCR and RNA in situ hybridization. Consistent with a possible role in cell cycle regulation, MANCR-depleted cells have a lower mitotic index and a higher incidence of defective cytokinesis. Taken together, our data reveal a role for the novel lncRNA, MANCR (mitotically-associated long non-coding RNA), in cell cycle regulation of aggressive breast cancer, and identify it as a potential therapeutic target.	Breast cancer/Cancer
GSE114685	Disruption of GRIN2B impairs differentiation in human neurons	Mutations in GRIN2B are associated with intellectual disability in humans. We generated iPSC derived mature cortical neurons with mutations in GRIN2B and compared them to isogenic control cells. We found that both loss of function (LOF) and reduced dosage (RD) mutations in GRIN2B lead to reduced expression of NMDAR genes and increased expression of marker of immaturity, including KI67 and MET.	Intellectual disability
GSE114941	Adipocyte-derived lipids mediate melanoma progression via FATP proteins	We performed RNA-seq on A375 melanoma cells in monoculture or after coculture with adipocytes and identified differentially expressed genes	Melanoma
GSE52036	RNA-seq analysis reveals endogenous aryl hydrocarbon receptor regulation is highly associated with eicosanoid synthesis and tumor necrosis factor activity in MCF-7 cancer cells	Background: The Aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) is a ligand-activated transcription factor that is activated by xenobiotic chemicals that function as AHR ligands.  The response to xenobiotic AHR ligands is toxicity and the induction of drug metabolizing enzymes. The impact of AHR knockdown on gene expression and pathways in human breast cancer cells in absence of xenobiotic AHR ligands has not been investigated on a genome-wide scale. Methods: MCF-7 cells were used as a model of human breast cancer.  The AHR was silenced with short interfering RNA against AHR (siAHR).  RNA-sequencing coupled with Ingenuity pathway analysis (IPA) was used to determine the impact of AHR knockdown on gene expression and pathways in the absence of xenobiotic AHR ligands.  Western blot analysis and recombinant tumor necrosis factor (TNF) was used to investigate the impact of AHR knockdown on TNF induction of MNSOD expression. Results: We found that the AHR is transcriptionally active in MCF-7 breast cancer cells in the absence of xenobiotic AHR ligands.  In total, the expression of 634 genes was significantly changed in AHR knockdown cells compared to controls at a false discovery rate of < 10%. The analysis confirmed that drug metabolizing enzymes were AHR targets; however, we found that AHR also promoted the expression of genes that were not directly related to the metabolism of xenobiotics, such as those involved in lipid and eicosanoid synthesis.  Gene pathway analysis of the AHR regulated gene dataset predicted TNF activity to be reduced in AHR knockdown cells.  Our finding that AHR knockdown inhibited TNF-stimulated increases in MNSOD expression confirmed this IPA prediction. Conclusions: This is the first gene expression profiling study of AHR knockdown breast cancer cells.  Several known and novel AHR targets were identified.  The results suggest that endogenous AHR regulation impacts eicosanoid synthesis by regulating gene expression.  The IPA prediction of reduced TNF activity in AHR knockdown cells was confirmed by showing that TNF-induced increases in MNSOD expression was inhibited in AHR knockdown cells.   The requirement of AHR for MNSOD activation is novel and provides a new link by which AHR may impact reactive oxidative species (ROS) signaling.	Cancer
GSE53239	RNA-sequencing of the brain transcriptome implicates dysregulation of neuroplasticity, circadian rhythms, and GTPase binding in bipolar disorder	See "Akula et al., Molecular Psychiatry in Press". RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq) is a powerful technique to investigate the complexity of gene expression in the human brain. We used RNA-seq to survey the brain transcriptome in high-quality post-mortem dorsolateral prefrontal cortex from 11 individuals diagnosed with bipolar disorder (BD) and from 11 age- and gender-matched controls.  Deep sequencing was performed, with over 350 million reads per specimen. At a false-discovery rate of <5%, we detected 5 differentially-expressed (DE) genes and 12 DE transcripts, most of which have not been previously implicated in BD.  Among these, PROM1/CD133 and ABCG2 play important roles in neuroplasticity. We also show for the first time differential expression of long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) in BD.  DE transcripts include those of SRSF5 and RFX4, which along with lncRNAs play a role in mammalian circadian rhythms. The DE genes were significantly enriched for several Gene Ontology (GO) categories. Of these, genes involved with GTPase binding were also enriched for BD-associated SNPs from previous genome-wide association studies, suggesting that differential expression of these genes is not simply a consequence of BD or its treatment.  Many of these findings were replicated by microarray in an independent sample of 60 cases and controls. These results highlight common pathways for inherited and non-inherited influences on disease risk that may constitute good targets for novel therapies.	pathway
GSE74729	A novel RAF kinase inhibitor with DFG-out binding mode: high efficacy in BRAF-mutant tumor xenograft models in the absence of normal tissue hyperproliferation	Purpose: Seek for differential gene expression in vemurafenib-resistant A375 tumors vs. untreated controls to provide a rationale for resistance mechanism Methods: mRNA profiles of vemurafenib-resistant A375 tumors and untreated control tumors were generated by transcriptome sequencing of A375 melanoma bearing mice. Since our xenograft samples contain a mixture of human and mouse RNAs we mapped RNASeq reads against a hybrid human/mouse genome. We than removed reads of potential mouse origin by taking only reads that map uniquely to human chromosomes. On average 23% of reads were removed as potential mouse reads. We than took the remaining reads (on average 77% per sample) to determine the gene expression levels for each sample. Normalized expression levels of 5 resistant samples were compared to 4 untreated control samples to detect differnetially regulated genes which may contribute to vemurfenib resistance Results: Expression levels of several genes were consistently altered in all resistant samples. Expression of e.g. genes encoding SPRY2, SPRY4, DUSP6, CCND1, PIK3R3, FGFR1, EPHA4, MCL1, and IGF1R was down-regulated, whereas expression of PDGFC, VEGFC, ABCB9 and KITLG was increased. Conclusions: Our study reports several differentially expressed genes which may contribute to vemurafenib resistance in A375 tumor bearing mice	Melanoma
GSE77140	Gene expression profiles of rescue with wild type or SUMO double mutant TRIM24	Gene expression profiles of rescue with wild type or SUMO double mutant TRIM24 after shRNA mediated knockdown of TRIM24 in MCF7 cell line	knockdown
GSE77383	Transcriptomic profiling discloses molecular and cellular events related to neuronal differentiation in SH-SY5Y cells	Human SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells are widely utilized in in vitro studies to dissect out pathogenetic mechanisms of neurodegenerative disorders. These cells are considered as neuronal precursors and differentiate into more mature neuronal phenotypes under selected growth conditions. In this study, we performed systematic transcriptomic (RNA-seq) and bioinformatic analysis to pinpoint pathways and cellular processes underlying neuronal differentiation of SH-SY5Y cells according to a two-step paradigm: retinoic acid treatment followed by enriched neurobasal medium. Categorization of 1989 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) identified in differentiated cells outlined meaningful biological functions associated with changes in cell morphology including remodelling of plasma membrane and cytoskeleton, neuritogenesis. Seventy-three DEGs were assigned to Axonal Guidance Signalling pathway, and the expression of selected gene products such as neurotrophin receptors, the functionally related SLITRK6, and semaphorins, was validated by immunoblotting. Along with these findings, the differentiated cells exhibited the ability to elongate longer axonal process as assessed by the morphometric evaluation. Recognition of molecular events occurring in differentiated SH-SY5Y cells is necessary to accurately interpret the cellular responses to specific stimuli in studies on disease pathogenesis.	pathway
GSE89443	RNA Seq analysis of NKX2-5 Null and Het human embryonic stem cells in cardiomyogenesis	Differentiation of human pluripotent stem cells (hPSCs) can be used to model human heart development and, in turn, to analyze the developmental consequences of genetic abnormalities. Here, we deleted NKX2-5, a critical component of the cardiac gene regulatory network, in human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) and identified a novel genetic interaction between NKX2-5 and HEY2 that is required for heart development	NA
GSE101480	Targeted inhibition of STAT/TET1 axis as a potent therapeutic strategy for acute myeloid leukemia	Effective therapy of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) remains an unmet need. DNA methylcytosine dioxygenase Ten-eleven translocation 1 (TET1) is a critical oncoprotein in AML. Through a series of data analysis and drug screening, we identified two compounds (i.e., NSC-311068 and NSC-370284) that selectively suppress TET1 transcription and 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (5hmC) modification, and effectively inhibit cell viability in AML with high level expression of TET1 (i.e., TET1-high AML), including AML carrying t(11q23)/MLL-rearrangements and t(8;21) AML. NSC-311068 and especially NSC-370284 significantly repressed TET1-high AML progression in vivo. UC-514321, a structural analog of NSC-370284, exhibited a more potent therapeutic effect and prolonged the median survival of TET1-high AML mice over three folds. NSC-370284 and UC-514321 both directly target STAT3/5, transcriptional activators of TET1, and thus repress TET1 expression. They also exhibit strong synergistic effects with standard chemotherapy. Our results highlight the therapeutic potential of targeting the STAT/TET1 axis by selective inhibitors in AML treatment.	Acute Myeloid Leukemia
GSE102246	mTOR kinase inhibition effectively decreases progression of a subset of neuroendocrine tumors that progress on rapalog therapy and delays cardiac impairment	Inhibition of mTOR signaling using the rapalog everolimus is an FDA-approved targeted therapy for patients with lung and gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (NET). However, patients eventually progress on treatment, highlighting the need for additional therapies. We focused on pancreatic NETs (pNETs) and reasoned that treatment of these tumors upon progression on rapalog therapy, with an mTOR kinase inhibitor (mTORKi) such as CC-223 could overcome a number of resistance mechanisms in tumors and delay cardiac carcinoid disease. We performed preclinical studies using human pNET cells in vitro and injected them subcutaneously or orthotopically to determine tumor progression and cardiac function in mice treated with either rapamycin alone or switched to CC-223 upon progression. Detailed signaling and RNA sequencing analyses were performed on tumors that were sensitive or progressed on mTOR treatment. Approximately 57% of mice bearing pNET tumors which progressed on rapalog therapy showed a significant decrease in tumor volume upon a switch to CC-223. Moreover, mice treated with an mTORKi exhibited decreased cardiac dilation and thickening of heart valves than those treated with placebo or rapamycin alone. In conclusion, in the majority of pNETs that progress on rapalogs, it is possible to reduce disease progression using an mTORKi, such as CC-223. Moreover, CC-223 had an additional transient cardiac benefit on valvular fibrosis compared to placebo- or rapalog-treated mice. These results provide the preclinical rationale to further develop mTORKi clinically upon progression on rapalog therapy and to further test their long term cardioprotective benefit in those NET patients prone to carcinoid syndrome.	NA
GSE104853	MicroRNA-125a-5p overexpression in human macrophages	Systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis (SJIA) is a severe childhood arthropathy with features of autoinflammation. Monocytes and macrophages in SJIA have a complex phenotype with both pro- and anti-inflammatory properties that combine features of several well characterized in vitro conditions used to activate macrophages.  An important anti-inflammatory phenotype is expression of CD163, a scavenger receptor that sequesters toxic pro-inflammatory complexes that is highly expressed in both active SJIA and macrophage activation syndrome (MAS).  CD163 is most strongly upregulated by IL-10 (M(IL-10)), and not by other conditions that reflect features seen in SJIA monocytes such as M(LPS+IC).  MicroRNA play key roles balancing and integrating cellular signals such as those in macrophage polarization, and as such we hypothesize microRNA regulate macrophage functional responses in SJIA including CD163 expression in vitro.  We find that two microRNA previously found to be elevated in active SJIA, miR-125a-5p and miR-181c, significantly reduced macrophage CD163 expression through two distinct mechanisms.  Neither microRNA was elevated in M(IL-10) with robust CD163 expression, but were instead induced in M(LPS+IC) where they restricted CD163 mRNA expression.  Mir-181 species directly targeted CD163 mRNA for degradation.  In contrast, transcriptome analysis of miR-125a-5p overexpression identified “cytokine-cytokine receptor interactions” as the most significantly repressed gene pathway, including decreased IL10RA, which is required for IL-10-mediated CD163 expression. Finally, overexpression of miR-181c inhibited CD163 anti-inflammatory responses to hemoglobin or high mobility group box 1 complexes. Together, these data show that microRNA utilize multiple mechanisms to integrate well characterized polarization phenotypes and regulate macrophage functional properties seen in SJIA.	pathway
GSE107104	Increased expression of immune regulatory mediators independently detects tuberculosis in advanced HIV	Tuberculosis (TB) is the major cause of death in HIV-infected individuals. However, diagnosis of TB in HIV remains challenging. The aim of this study was to determine the performance of published gene signatures in distinguishing active TB in advanced HIV. We concluded that gene expression of FcGR1A and BATF2, and plasma protein levels of IFNγ and CXCL10 can singly classify active TB in HIV-infected with advanced HIV.	NA
GSE100261	Transcriptional impact of MTHFD2 in Human Aortic Endothelial Cells	We performed transcriptome analysis of Human Aortic Endothelial Cells after siRNA mediated knockdown of MTHFD2. We identified MTHFD2 as a key driver for a gene cluster which integrates mitochondrial one-carbon metabolism, serine synthesizing enzymes as well as common amino acid and ER stress response genes.	siRNA/knockdown
GSE111900	Transcriptome-wide analysis of RNA binding and splicing alterations induced by SRSF2 P95 mutations in myelodysplasia	Mutations in the splicing factor Serine Arginine Rich Splicing Factor 2 (SRSF2) occur in over 30% of patients with myelodysplasia (MDS) and a subset of patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and portend a poor prognosis. SRSF2 is ubiquitously expressed and directs exon inclusion or exclusion in a sequence and context dependent manner. SRSF2 mutations almost exclusively affect the proline at position 95 in the C-terminus of the RNA binding domain.  We here show how a mutation in SRSF2 (P95H) affects its normal function in vivo on a transcriptome-wide basis via RNA crosslinking and immunoprecipitation (HITS-CLIP) and parallel quantification of transcript levels (RNA-seq), leading to the identification of differentially bound and alternatively spliced SRSF2 targets. Keywords: Splicing, myeloid neoplasia, SRSF2, HITS-CLIP	Acute Myeloid Leukemia
GSE106699	RNA sequencing of 13 T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia patients (5 TCRAD-MYC translocated T-ALL_8TAL1-LMO2 T-ALL)	RNA sequencing analysis revealed a different expression profile between two different T-ALL subgroups, namely MYC-TCRAD translocated T-ALL vs TAL1-LMO2 T-ALL.	NA
GSE115827	RNA-seq data from human SGBS adipocytes differentiated with marine oxohexadecenoic acids	We recently isolated and identified (7E)-9-oxohexadec-7-enoic acid (1) and (10E)-9-oxohexadec-10-enoic acid (2) from the marine algae Chaetoceros karianus. Synthesis and biological characterization show that these are PPARα/γ dual agonists. Herein we report the gene expression data from human SGBS pre-adipocytes, stimulated to differentiate with 1, 2 or the classical PPARγ agonist rosiglitazone. The transcriptome analysis shows that both compounds induce anti-diabetic gene programs in adipocytes by upregulating insulin-sensitizing adipokines and repressing pro-inflammatory cytokines.	NA
GSE102746	Transcriptome-analysis of patient-derived normal and ulcerative colitis intestinal epithelial organoids	Purpose: The objective of this study is to compare the transcriptome profile of intestinal epithelial organoids cultivated from distal colon tissue of patients with ulcerative colitis vs organoids cultivate from non-matched and otherwise healthy patient colon	NA
GSE111582	APOBEC mutation drives early-onset squamous cell carcinomas in recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa	RNA-sequencing of RDEB SCC tumors and RDEB normal skin	NA
GSE116327	Gene expression changes associated with Alexander disease (AxD)	We use human induced pluripotent stem cell (hiPSC)-derived astrocytes and post-mortem human brain tissues to study gene expression changes associated with AxD	NA
GSE116865	RNAseq of (Dimethylfumarate)DMF-induced changes in human CD8+ memory cells	IL-17-producing CD8+ (Tc17)T cells are implicated in the pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis (MS), thereby representing a promising target for therapy. We found that dimethyl fumarate (DMF), a first-line medication for MS upregulated reactive oxygen species (ROS) by glutathione depletion in murine Tc17 cells, which limited IL-17 and diverted Tc17 cells towards cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) signature. DMF enhanced PI3K-AKT-FOXO1-T-bet- as well as STAT5-signaling leading to restricted permissive histone state at the Il17 locus. T-bet-deficiency, inhibiting PI3K-AKT, STAT5 or histone deacetylases prevented DMF-ROS-mediated IL-17 suppression. In MS patients with stable response, DMF suppressed IL-17 production by CD8+ T-cells and triggered diversion from Tc17 towards CTL signature along with enriched ROS-, PI3K-AKT-FOXO1-signaling, demonstrating comparable regulation across species. Accordingly, in the mouse model for MS, DMF limited Tc17-encephalitogenicity. Our findings disclose DMF-ROS-AKT-driven pathway, which selectively modulates Tc17 fate to ameliorate MS, thus opening avenue to develop markers and targets for specific therapy.	pathway
GSE95120	The arrhythmogenic cardiomyopathy-specific coding and non-coding transcriptome in human cardiac stromal cells	Background: Arrhythmogenic cardiomyopathy (ACM) is a genetic autosomal disease characterized by abnormal cell-cell adhesion, cardiomyocyte death, progressive fibro-adipose replacement of the myocardium, arrhythmias and sudden death. Several different cell types contribute to the pathogenesis of ACM, including, as recently described, cardiac stromal cells (CStCs). In the present study, we aim to identify ACM-specific expression profiles of human CStCs derived from endomyocardial biopsies of ACM patients and healthy individuals employing TaqMan Low Density Arrays for miRNA expression profiling, and high throughput sequencing for gene expression quantification. Results: We identified 5 miRNAs and 272 genes as significantly differentially expressed. Both the differentially expressed genes as well as the target genes of the ACM-specific miRNAs were found to be enriched in cell adhesion related biological processes. Functional similarity and protein interaction based network analyses performed on the identified deregulated genes, miRNA targets and known ACM-causative genes revealed clusters of highly related genes involved in cell adhesion, extracellular matrix organization, lipid transport and ephrin receptor signaling. Conclusions: We determined for the first time the coding and non-coding transcriptome characteristic of ACM cardiac stromal cells, finding evidence for a potential contribution of miRNAs to ACM pathogenesis or phenotype maintenance. Besides known pathways, we identified also deregulation of genes encoding ephrin receptors and ephrins, thus suggesting a potential involvement of Eph-ephrin signaling in CStCs from ACM hearts.	Cardiomyopathy
GSE113790	RNA sequencing analysis of decidua tissues from unexplained recurrent spontaneous abortion patients and controls with induced abortions	Recurrent spontaneous abortion (RSA), defined as the failure of two or more consecutive clinical pregnancies before 20 weeks of gestation, affects approximately 1% of couples attempting to conceive. However, the underlying mechanisms of 50% of cases are unknown. The decidua plays a crucial role during pregnancy, which can provide a delicate balance between immune tolerance and defense to maintain the pregnancy.We performed RNA-seq to identify gene expression alterations in the deciduas of RSA patients and controls. RNA-seq was done using TruSeq Stranded mRNA Library Preparation. Briefly, intact RNA was fragmented, end repaired, adapter ligation and PCR amplified following illumina protocol. Libraries were sequencing by illumins Hiseq 2000. After quality control, sequence data were processed with STAR to generate read alignments with hg19. Raw read counts for annotated genes were obtained with featureCounts with default settings, normalized and analyzed using DEseq2.	NA
GSE106344	Lyophilized human cells stored at room temperature preserve multiple RNA species at excellent quality for RNA sequencing	Purpose: We aimed to examine whether eukaryotic cell lyophilization and long-term storage would be feasible as an environmentally friendly and cheap alternative to cryogenic storage or the use of FFPE samples for large-scale RNA profiling studies. Brief method: On three different days three million GM12873 cells were taken up in 0.1 M trehalose, subjected to lyophilization (freeze-drying) and then stored for two weeks at room temperature in the presence of CaCl2 in a dark, tightly sealed box. Fresh paired control cells were pelleted and taken up in trizol without lyophilization. Total RNA was isolated using a modified trizol method, quantified and subjected to mRNA-Seq library preparation. Samples were sequenced using a NextSeq 500 instrument to 75 bp (single-end). Raw reads were aligned to the hg19 genomic build with TopHat 2.0.7 and gene expression quantification was performed using Cufflinks. Results: We found that lyophilized cells are highly similar in all inferred RNA-Seq quality metrics compared to their non-lyophilized controls and are useful sources of high-quality RNA for both small and large-scale studies. Conslusion: Lyophilization might be the preservation technique of choice in the future for studies aiming to involve large sample sets, such as clinical studies.	NA
GSE110608	RNA sequencing analysis of human embryonic stem cells and axial progenitors	We analysed the transcriptomes of human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) and in vitro derived axial progenitors.	NA
GSE78928	Huntingtin aggregation impairs autophagy leading to Argonaute-2 accumulation and global microRNA dysregulation	Many neurodegenerative diseases are characterized by the presence of intracellular protein aggregates resulting in alterations in autophagy. However, the consequences of impaired autophagy on neuronal function remain poorly understood. In this study, we used cell culture and mouse models of huntingtin protein aggregation, as well as post-mortem material from patients with Huntington's disease to demonstrate that Argonaute-2 (AGO2) accumulates in the presence of neuronal protein aggregates and that this is due to impaired autophagy. Accumulation of AGO2, a key factor of the RNAinduced silencing complex that executes microRNA functions, results in global alterations of microRNA levels and activity. Together these results demonstrate that impaired autophagy found in neurodegenerative diseases not only influences protein aggregation, but also directly contributes to global alterations of intracellular posttranscriptional networks.	Neurodegenerative disease/Huntington
GSE105264	Uridilation by TUT4/7 restricts retrotransposition of human Line-1s	Purpose: the goal of this study was to test whether the amounts of genome-encoded Line-1s are influenced by TUTases and Mov10 Methods: RNA-Seq data were obtained for PA-1 or Hek293 Flp-IN T-Rex cells in which wild-type or mutant TUTases or Mov10 were overexpressed or the proteins were depleted by RNA interference Results: Minor changes (less than 0.4-fold) were observed in the amounts of mRNAs of Homo sapiens-specific Line-1 families in Hek293 Flp-IN T-Rex and PA-1 either overexpressing or depleted of TUTases and Mov10	NA
GSE83834	RHBDF2 in Stromal Fibroblasts Mediates TGF-b Signal and Enhances Cancer Cell Invasion via Intercellular Cross-Talk	Cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) existing in tumor stroma play a crucial role in tumor progression. Here, we show that stromal fibroblasts near cancer cells are likely to display up-regulated RHBDF2 expression caused by chronic stimulation from pro-inflammatory cytokines. RHBDF2 promotes both the cleavage of type I transforming growth factor (TGF)-b receptor, through tumor necrosis factor α converting enzyme activation, and the motility of CAFs upon stimulation with TGF-b1. High-motility CAFs can consequently assist cancer cell invasion. Furthermore, the expression profiles of these cytokines are significantly associated with poor prognosis in gastric cancer (GC) patients. These findings highlight the underlying mechanism whereby cancer cells take advantage of CAFs to acquire invasiveness.	Cancer
GSE102476	A radiolabeling-free, qPCR-based method for locus-specific pseudouridine detection	Pseudouridine (Ψ) is the most abundant post-transcriptional RNA modification. Various methods have been developed to achieve locus-specific Ψ detection; however, the existing methods often involve radiolabeling of RNA, require advanced experimental skills and can be time-consuming. Herein we report a radiolabeling-free，qPCR-based method to detect locus-specific Ψs in rRNA and mRNA. This method is based on Ψ chemical adduct (Ψ-CMC) induced mutation/deletion during reverse transcription (RT), leading to qPCR products of different melting temperatures. Utilizing high-throughput sequencing, we demonstrate that such misincorporation is a general feature of Ψ-CMC adduct during our improved RT conditions. We validated this method on known Ψ sites in rRNA and showed that the melting curves correlate with the modification level. Moreover, we successfully detected Ψs in mRNA and lncRNA of different abundance, and identified Ψ synthase that targets mRNA. Our facile method takes only 1.5 days to complete, and with slight adjustment it can be applied to detect other epitranscriptomic marks in the transcriptome.	NA
GSE107581	PD-L1 (CD274) overexpression effect on glioblastoma cell line U251	The aim was to identify genes that were influenced by PD-L1 overexpression in glioblastoma cell lines.	NA
GSE110206	Amlexanox targets the IKK-ɛ/TBK1/NF-κB signaling axis to suppress the epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition and prostate cancer metastasis	Tumor metastasis is the major cause of death for prostate cancer (PCa) patients. However, the treatment options for metastatic PCa are very limited. Epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) has been reported to be an indispensable step for tumor metastasis and is suggested to associate with acquisition of cancer stem cell (CSC) attributes. Herein we establish a EMT reporter system based on firefly or renilla luciferase reporter driven by promoters of CDH1 and VIM genes. High-throughput drug screening from an approved drug library identifies Amlexanox, a commonly used drug to treat aphthous ulcers, to be a strong EMT inhibitor. Amlexanox significantly suppresses PCa cell migration, metastasis and tumor initiation capacity. Mechanistically, the inhibitory effect of Amlexanox on EMT and cell mobility is acted through targeting the IKK-ɛ/ TBK1/ NF-κB signaling pathway. Considering the known safety as well as the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic profile of Amlexanox, our findings suggest a great potential of repositioning Amlexanox as a new anti-metastatic drug for PCa.	Cancer/Prostate cancer
GSE115831	Pancreatic cancer-derived exosomes induce apoptosis of T lymphocytes through the p38 MAPK signal transduction pathway	Pancreatic cancer is the fourth most lethal malignancy, which is characterized by poor immunogenicity. Pancreatic cancer cells take various strategies to suppress host immune response, evade immune defenses, and facilitate tumor growth and development. As a mode of long-range intercellular communication, cancer-derived exosomes contribute to the impairment of the immune system. However, the mechanisms that induce changes in the activities of signal transduction pathways in immune cells, which are influenced by tumor-derived exosomes, are poorly understood. We treated peripheral T lymphocytes with pancreatic cancer-derived exosomes, performed RNA-seq and Gene Set Enrichment Analysis to explore the pivotal signaling pathway that mediates apoptosis in exosomes-treated T lymphocytes.	Cancer/Pancreatic cancer/pathway
GSE117012	CD73 knockdown effect in pancreatic cancer cell lines	Recent studies have shown that non-enzymatic function of CD73 play a key role in tumor progression, but this function of CD73 in pancreatic cancer cells has not been studied. In the present study, PANC-1 cell lines were transfected with CD73 siRNA, and proliferation ability and cell cycle was significantly inhibited. However, little is known about the mechanisms involved in CD73 regulation in tumors.	Cancer/Pancreatic cancer/knockdown
GSE107685	Gene expression changes in human iPSC-derived cardiomyocytes after X-ray irradiation	Within the present study we evaluated hiPSC-CMs as a possible methodological extension for the assessment of organ specific responses to ionizing radiation regarding gene expression changes. We aimed to review the feasibility of hiPSC-CMs as a valid testing model for gene expression changes and to determine alterations within the gene expression pattern of hiPSC-CMs after exposure to X-ray radiation, subsequently.	NA
GSE115650	MRI-informed muscle biopsies correlate MRI with pathology and DUX4 target gene expression in FSHD	Facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy (FSHD) is a common, dominantly inherited disease caused by the epigenetic de-repression of the DUX4 gene, a transcription factor normally repressed in somatic cells. As targeted therapies are now possible in FSHD, a better understanding of the relationship between DUX4 activity, muscle pathology and muscle MRI changes are crucial both to understand disease mechanisms and for the design of future clinical trials. Here, we performed MRIs of the lower extremities in 36 individuals with FSHD, followed by needle muscle biopsies in safely accessible muscles. We examined the correlation between MRI characteristics, muscle pathology, and expression of DUX4 target genes. Results show that the presence of elevated MRI STIR signal has substantial predictive value in identifying muscles with active disease and DUX4 target gene expression. In addition, DUX4 target gene expression was detected only in FSHD-affected muscles and not in control muscles, and higher levels of DUX4 target expression was associated with more advanced muscle pathology. These results support the use of MRI to identify FSHD muscles with active disease as measured by histopathology and DUX4 target gene expression and might be useful for the design of studies of disease progression and response to intervention.	NA
GSE114987	RNA sequencing reveals transcriptional changes after Hippo signaling activation in podocytes	Podocytes are crucial for the establishment and maintenance of the blood-urine filtration barrier in the glomeruli of the kidney. Activation of the Hippo signaling pathway in podocytes leads to the induction of apoptosis and could be linked to the pathogenesis of proteinuric diseases like focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS). To investigate the Hippo signaling controlled gene transcription, podocytes overexpressing LATS2, a core kinase of the Hippo pathway, were analyzed via RNA sequencing.	pathway
GSE119377	Human Adipocytes Regulate Gene Expression in Triple-negative Breast Cancer Assessed by NGS  Sequencing	Adipocyte was found play a pivotal role in tumorgenesis, progression and metastasis in breast cancer. However, affection of adipocyte on gene expression profile in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is still not clear. In the present study, firstly we reported the gene expression profiles of TNBC regulated by human adipocytes using NGS. TNBC cell MDA-MB-231 was used in this study. MDA-MB-231 cells were treated with medium derived from adipocytes culture supernatants. Using two different RNA libraries, we sequenced the complete transcriptome(including mRNA, lncRNA, circleRNA and small RNA) of MDA-MB-231 treated with medium derived from adipocytes culture supernatants.	Breast cancer/Cancer
GSE108933	RNA-sequencing of human tendon after injury	RNA-sequencing for 6 samples	NA
GSE111231	Perivascular signals alter global genomic profile of glioblastoma and response to temozolomide in a gelatin hydrogel	Glioblastoma (GBM) is the most common primary malignant brain tumor, with patients exhibiting poor survival (median survival time: 15 months). Difficulties in treating GBM include not only the inability to resect the diffusively-invading tumor cells but also therapeutic resistance. The perivascular niche within the GBM tumor microenvironment contributes significantly to tumor cell invasion, cancer stem cell maintenance, and has been shown to protect tumor cells from radiation and chemotherapy. In this study, we describe the development of an in vitro artificial perivascular niche (PVN), culturing endothelial and stromal cells along with GBM cells within a methacrylamide-functionalized gelatin hydrogel, in order to examine how the presence of the PVN alters global genomic expression profiles. Using RNA-seq, we demonstrate that the inclusion of perivascular niche cells with GBM cells upregulates genes related to angiogenesis and remodeling, while downregulated genes are related to cell cycle and DNA damage repair. Signaling pathways and genes commonly implicated in GBM malignancy, such as MGMT, EGFR, PI3K-Akt signaling, and Ras/MAPK signaling are also upregulated in the presence of perivascular niche cells. We describe the kinetics of gene expression within the PVN hydrogels over a course of 14 days, observing the patterns associated with previously-observed GBM-mediated endothelial network co-option and regression that are altered in the presence of covalently-bound hyaluronic acid. We finally examine the effect of PVN culture on GBM cell responsiveness to temozolomide, a frontline chemotherapy used clinically against GBM. Notably, the presence of a PVN leads to significantly increased TMZ resistance compared to hydrogels containing only GBM cells. Overall, these results demonstrate that inclusion of cellular and matrix-associated elements of the PVN within in vitro models of GBM provide critical signals to regulate the phenotype and therapeutic responsiveness of GBM cells.	Cancer/pathway
GSE112586	RNA transcriptome sequencing analysis of SGC-7901 cells transfected with ENST00000431060 shRNA or control shRNA	RNA transcriptome sequencing analysis was performed in SGC-7901 cells that were transfected with ENST00000431060 shRNA or control shRNA	NA
GSE114789	UPA-Seq: Prediction of functional lncRNAs using the sensitivities to UV-crosslinking	Assuming that functional lncRNAs form larger ribonucleoprotein complex and thus are easily crosslinked to proteins upon UV-irradiation, we performed RNA-Seq analyses of RNAs recovered from the aqueous phase after the UV-irradiation and phenol chloroform extraction (UPA-Seq)	NA
GSE118165	RNA-seq data	The immune system depends on a balanced interplay among a variety of specialized cell types transitioning between resting and stimulated states. While epigenome mapping efforts have focused on resting ex vivo immune cells, efforts to characterize stimulation-induced chromatin changes of diverse cell types has been limited. Thus, we collected ATAC-seq and RNA-seq data from immune cell types under resting and stimulated conditions from blood of healthy individuals, and cell types from fetal thymus samples.	NA
GSE120306	RNA-Seq of LRRK2 G2019S Parkinson’s iPSC-derived astrocytes	Non-neuronal cell types such as astrocytes can contribute to Parkinson’s disease (PD) pathology. The G2019S mutation in leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) is one of the most common known causes of familial PD. To characterize its effect on astrocytes, we developed a protocol to produce midbrain-patterned astrocytes from human induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) derived from PD LRRK2 G2019S patients and healthy controls. In order to understand the effect of this mutation on astrocyte function, we compared the gene expression profiles of iPSC-derived midbrain-patterned astrocytes from PD patients with those from healthy controls.	Parkinson
GSE120337	Genomic expression analysis of K562 cells expressing shRNA targeting lncRNA-IIRX and control cells	LncRNA-IIRX plays critical role in Bcr-Abl-induced tumorigenesis. To discover its mechanisms underlying cellular transformation by Bcr-Abl oncogene, genome-wide mRNA expression was measured by RNA-seq in K562 cells expressing shRNA targeting lncRNA-IIRX and control cells. We identified many genes with differential expression in K562 cells after knocking down lncRNA-IIRX.	NA
GSE121137	Ascorbate Suppresses VEGF Expression in Retinal Pigment Epithelial Cells	In this study we show that ascorbate (vitamin C) shifts the hydroxymethylome and transcriptome in RPE cells, and downregulates expression of VEGF.	NA
GSE121241	Long non-coding RNAs are central regulators of the IL-1b-induced inflammatory response in human lung fibroblasts	There is accumulating evidence to indicate that long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) are important regulators of the inflammatory response. In this report, we have employed next generation sequencing to identify 14 lncRNAs that are differentially expressed in human lung fibroblasts following the induction of inflammation using interleukin-1b (IL-1b). Knockdown of the two most highly expressed lncRNAs, IL7AS and MIR3142HG, showed that IL7AS negatively regulated IL-6 release whilst MIR3142HG was required for IL-8 and CCL2 release.  Parallel studies in fibroblasts derived from patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis showed similar increases in IL7AS levels, that also negatively regulate IL-6 release. In contrast, IL-1b-induced MIR3142HG expression was reduced by 8-fold in IPF fibroblasts, with the consequence being that MIR3142 knockdown showed no effect upon IL-8 and CCL2 release. In summary, we have catalogued those lncRNAs that are differential expression following IL-1b-activation of human lung fibroblasts and shown that these regulate the inflammatory response.	Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis/knockdown
GSE102335	Microglia innatly develop within cerebral organoids	Here we report that human organoid-grown microglia have transcriptional identity similar to that of human ex vivo adult primary microglia. By performing RNAseq on total coding RNA we show that crucial genes necessary for microglia development and identity are expressed at similar levels between the 2 groups.	NA
GSE108995	Profiling of escape kinetics of viruses subjected to RNAi	To assess how viruses of different genome compositions escape engineered RNAi	NA
GSE110451	Profiling in vivo Bone Lesion (IVBL) and Orthotopic tumors by Next Generation Sequencing	Based on RNA-seq, we performed transcriptomic profiling to examine the differences between Orthotopic and IVBL (in vivo bone lesion). We found Calcium signalling is upregulated in IVBL and correlated to the expression of gap junctions.	NA
GSE117562	STVI-120 Induction of differentiation in human epidermal stem cells followed by differential splicing analysis	We report the effects of induction of differentiation in human epidermal stem cells on the splicing of the transcriptome.	NA
GSE119827	RNA-seq analysis of control and NRDE2-depleted breast cancer cells	Purpose: investigate transcriptomic changes following depletion of the NRDE2 gene Methods: MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cells were transfected with 20nM control or NRDE2-targeting siRNAs, and RNA was collected after 48h for RNA-seq analysis Results: We analyzed si-Control and si-NRDE2-treated samples in triplicate (~46-64 million reads per sample) and find that the near-complete loss of NRDE2 results in generally modest changes in gene expression, with only 84 genes deregulated >2-fold. We also identify 342 introns which are differentially retained in NRDE2-depleted cells. Conclusions: NRDE2 is required for suppressing intron retention in a subset of genes	Breast cancer/Cancer
GSE119954	The Genetic Landscape of Diamond-Blackfan Anemia	Diamond-Blackfan anemia (DBA) is a rare bone marrow failure disorder that affects 7 out of 1,000,000 live births and has been associated with mutations in components of the ribosome. In order to characterize the genetic landscape of this heterogeneous disorder, we recruited a cohort of 472 individuals with a clinical diagnosis of DBA and performed whole exome sequencing (WES). We identified rare and predicted damaging mutations in likely causal genes for 78% of individuals. The majority of mutations were singletons, absent from population databases, predicted to cause loss of function, and in one of 19 previously reported ribosomal protein (RP) encoding genes. Using exon coverage estimates, we identified and validated 31 deletions in RP genes. We also observed an enrichment for extended splice site mutations and validated their diverse effects using RNA sequencing in individual-derived cell lines. Leveraging the size of our cohort, we observed robust genotype-phenotype associations with congenital abnormalities and treatment outcomes. We further identified rare mutations in 7 previously unreported RP genes that may cause DBA, as well as several distinct disorders that appear to phenocopy DBA, including 9 individuals with biallelic CECR1 mutations that result in deficiency of ADA2. However, no new genes were identified at exome-wide significance, suggesting that there are no unidentified genes containing mutations readily identified by WES that explain > 5% of DBA cases. Overall, this report should not only inform clinical practice for DBA individuals, but also the design and analysis of rare variant studies for heterogeneous Mendelian disorders.	variant
GSE121155	Effect of Influenza virus infection on lncRNA expression in A549 cells	Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) are a new arm of gene regulatory mechanism as discovered by sequencing techniques and follow-up functional studies. There are only few studies on lncRNAs as related to gene expression regulation and anti-viral activity during influenza virus infection. We sought to identify and characterize lncRNAs involved in influenza virus replication. In the current study, we identified dys-regulated lncRNAs in influenza virus-infected human lung epithelial A549 cells using RNA sequencing in A549 cells.	NA
GSE110193	RNA-seq analysis of BAP1-depleted uveal melanoma cells	OCM-1A uveal melanoma cells were infected with lentivirus carrying shRNA expression constructs specific for BAP1 or GFP (control), and placed under selection for 6 days. RNA-seq was performed.	Melanoma
GSE111177	Identification of Transcription Factor Relationships Associated with Androgen Deprivation Therapy Response and Metastatic Progression in Prostate Cancer	Background: Patients with locally advanced or recurrent prostate cancer typically undergo androgen deprivation therapy (ADT), but the benefits are often short-lived, and responses are variable. ADT failure results in castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC), that inevitably leads to metastasis. We hypothesized that differences in tumor transcriptional programs may reflect differential responses to ADT and subsequent metastasis.   Results: We performed whole transcriptome analysis of 20 patient-matched Pre-ADT biopsies and 20 Post-ADT prostatectomy specimens, and identified two subgroups of patients (high impact and low impact groups) that exhibited distinct transcriptional changes in response to ADT. We found that all patients lost AR-dependent subtype (PCS2) transcriptional signatures. The high impact group maintained the more aggressive subtype (PCS1) signal, while the low impact group more resembled an AR-suppressed (PCS3) subtype. Computational analyses identified transcription factor coordinated groups (TFCGs) enriched in the high impact group network. Leveraging a large public dataset of over 800 metastatic and primary samples, we identified 33 TFCGs in common between high impact group and metastatic lesions, including SOX4/FOXA2/GATA4, ERF/ETV5/ETV3/ELF4, and a TFCG containing JUN, JUNB, JUND, FOS, FOSB, and FOSL1. The majority of metastatic TFCGs were subsets of larger TFCGs in the high impact group network, suggesting refinement of critical TFCGs in prostate cancer progression.   Conclusions: We have identified TFCGs associated with pronounced initial transcriptional response to ADT, aggressive signatures, and metastasis. Our findings suggest multiple new hypotheses that could lead to novel combination therapies to prevent development of CRPC following ADT.	Cancer/Prostate cancer
GSE111405	Longitudinal Personal DNA Methylome Dynamics in a Human with a Chronic Condition	Epigenomics regulates gene expression and is as important as genomics in precision personal health, as it is heavily influenced by environment and lifestyle. We profiled whole genome DNA methylation and corresponding transcriptome of peripheral blood mononuclear cells collected from a human volunteer over a period of 36 months, generating 28 methylome and 57 transcriptome datasets. We found that DNA methylomic changes are associated with infrequent glucose levels alteration, whereas the transcriptome underwent dynamic changes during events such as viral infections. Most DNA meta-methylome changes occurred 80-90 days prior to clinically detectable glucose elevation. Analysis of the deep personal methylome dataset revealed an unprecedented number of allelic differentially methylated regions (aDMR) which remain stable longitudinally and are preferentially associated with allele-specific gene regulation. Our results revealed that different types of "omics" data associate with different aspects of conditions of this individual: DNA methylation with chronic disease and transcriptome with acute events.	NA
GSE118490	Transcriptomic analysis of trametinib-resistant HCT116 colorectal carcinoma cells compared to the parental control cells	HCT116 cells were treated with with increasing concentrations of trametinib over 2 months. Drug-resistant clones emerged and were cultured in the presence of 30 nmol/L trametinib. These cells exhibited a greater than 10-fold increase in the GI50 for trametinib compared to the parental cell line. RNA-seq of the resistant clone HCT116_R4 versus the parental cells identified differentially expressed genes potentially involved in resistance.	NA
GSE119513	Comparison of Transcriptomes between A549 and H23 Cells	We profiled transcriptomes in human lung cancer cell lines H23 and A549 cells.	Cancer/Lung cancer
GSE121534	Differentiation enhances Zika virus infection in neuronal brain cells	Zika virus (ZIKV) is an emerging, mosquito-borne pathogen associated with a widespread 2015–2016 epidemic in the Western Hemisphere and a proven cause of microcephaly and other fetal brain defects in infants born to infected mothers. ZIKV infections have been also linked to other neurological illnesses in infected adults and children, including Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS), acute flaccid paralysis (AFP) and meningoencephalitis, but the viral pathophysiology behind those conditions remains poorly understood. Here we investigated ZIKV infectivity in neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells, both undifferentiated and following differentiation with retinoic acid. We perform RNA seq, and global trancriptome analysis to corroborate the effect of retinoic acid in SH-SY5Y cells. Then we analyze the virus infection in differentiated and undifferntiated cells. We found that multiple ZIKV strains, representing both the prototype African and contemporary Asian epidemic lineages, were able to replicate in SH-SY5Y cells. Differentiation with resultant expression of mature neuron markers increased infectivity in these cells, and the extent of infectivity correlated with degree of differentiation.  Enhanced ZIKV infectivity in a neural cell line following differentiation may contribute to viral neuropathogenesis in the developing or mature central nervous system.	NA
GSE64341	Effect of PDZ domain binding Kinase inhibition using TOPK-32 (called PBKi) on C4-2 cell transcriptome	Analysis of C4-2 prostate cancer cell line after 6 hrs of treatment with TOPK-32. PBK is overexpressed in a number of solid tumours, including prostate cancer. Results provide insight into the molecular mechanisms of PBK in prostate carcinogenesis.	Cancer/Prostate cancer
GSE88888	A monocyte gene expression signature in the early clinical course of Parkinson’s disease	Recent studies suggest that the activation of the innate immune system is an integral part of Parkinson’s disease (PD) pathology. Monocytes have a critical role as effectors and regulators of the innate immune system, and a recent expression quantitative trait locus (eQTL) study links monocytes to PD. Patients diagnosed with PD according to the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke  diagnostic criteria for PD were included. We applied a standardized procedure with blood drawing from fasting participants. PD patients with Hoehn and Yahr > 2 and/or cognitive impairment were not recruited. Participants with a history of cancer, infectious diseases within the past three months, or taking anti-inflammatory drugs were excluded. Altogether, we analyzed the monocytic transcriptome profiles of 10 PD patients and 9 age- and sex-matched controls using mRNA sequencing.	Parkinson’s disease/Parkinson
GSE114383	Expression analysis of PC3 cells treated with scramble AON or AON directed against MBNL1	We transfected PC3 cells with 100nM of a scrambled antisense oligonucleotide (AON) and an AON directed against MBNL1 exon 7 (36 basepairs) in order to skip the latter. Cells were harvested at 72h post-transfection and RNAseq was performed with ribozero depletion.	NA
GSE117444	Differential gene expression analysis between proliferating and quiescent human dermal fibroblasts	Purpose: Quiescence is a state or reversible cell cycle arrest. A previous study using microarrays (Coller et al., PMID: 16509772) revealed gene expression changes between quiescent and proliferating human dermal fibroblasts and defined a "quiescece program" of genes that change in abundance when fibroblasts were introduced into quiescence by one of three methods. The goal of this study is to perform high throughut RNA sequencing to determine global changes in gene expression between proliferating and quiescent human dermal fibroblasts. Methods: Three different biological replicates (corresponding to two fibroblast strains, 10-5 and 12-1) were collected in proliferating and contact--inhibited (quiescent) conditions. RNA extracted from these cells were used for library preparation. The libraries were sequenced on an Illumina HiSeq 2000 instrument. Results: Among the 19,673 genes monitored, 1,993 genes (10.1%) changed in expression two-fold or more, demonstrating widespread changes in gene expression with contact inhibition-induced quiescence. Fifty-two percent of these genes were upregulated in 7dCI compared with proliferating fibroblasts, and 48% were downregulated in 7dCI fibroblasts. Conclusions: There are widespread changes in gene expression as fibroblasts transition between proliferating and quiescent states.	NA
GSE120364	Next Generation Sequencing Facilitates Quantitative Analysis of Gene expression profile in CD8+ T cells with TOX-overexpression	Purpose: Next-generation sequencing (NGS) has revolutionized systems-based analysis of cellular pathways. The goals of this study are to compare NGS-derived TOX associated transcriptome profiling (RNA-seq) to microarray and quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT–PCR) methods and to evaluate protocols for optimal high-throughput data analysis. Methods: mRNA profiles of human CD8+ T cell overexpressed by TOX lentivirus or NC lentiviruswere generated by deep sequencing, in triplicate, using Illumina. qRT–PCR validation was performed using TaqMan and SYBR Green assays          Conclusions: Our study represents the first detailed analysis of TOX associated transcriptomes generated by RNA-seq technology. The optimized data analysis workflows reported here should provide a framework for comparative investigations of expression profiles. Our results show that NGS offers a comprehensive and more accurate quantitative and qualitative evaluation of mRNA content within a cell or tissue. We conclude that RNA-seq based transcriptome characterization would expedite genetic network analyses and permit the dissection of complex biologic functions.	pathway
GSE121093	Vitamin C Promotes Apoptosis in Breast Cancer Cells by Increasing TRAIL Expression	In this study we show that ascorbate (vitamin C) shifts the transcriptome of MDA-MB-231 cells and increases apoptosis.	Breast cancer/Cancer
GSE121095	Epigenetic reprogramming of melanoma cells by vitamin C treatment	In this study we show that ascorbate (vitamin C) shifts the  transcriptome of melanoma cells, and decreases malignant phenotypes.	Melanoma
GSE117143	UBC9 knockdown  in bladder cancer T24 cell lines	UBC9 is the sole conjugating enzyme E2 in the sumoylation and plays a pivotal role in maintaining homeostasis and restraining stress reaction. Targeting UBC9 is emerging as a novel strategy for cancer therapy. However, the role of UBC9 in bladder cancer is not clear. Here, we sought to determine the alterations of trancriptome after shRNA-mediated knockdown UBC9 in T24 cell lines．	Cancer/knockdown
GSE117189	Fisetin induces autophagy in pancreatic cancer cells via endoplasmic reticulum stress- and mitochondrial stress-dependent pathways	Pancreatic cancer is one of the most aggressive tumors and has poor survival rates. Fisetin, a natural flavonoid, was recently reported to have antitumor effects in various cancer models. Autophagy is a conserved catabolic process that maintains cellular homoeostasis in response to stress, and together with apoptosis, determines cell fate. Herein, we examined the effect of fisetin on pancreatic cancer. We reveal that fisetin inhibits Panc-1 cell proliferation in vivo and in vitro. We found that AMPK-dependent autophagy was enhanced after fisetin treatment.However RNA-seq analysis revealed that the unfolded protein response, which is activated by ER stress, was enriched. We also found that there may be crosstalk between the AMPK- and p8-dependent pathways.	Cancer/Pancreatic cancer/pathway
GSE120663	Transcriptome Analysis of PBMCs in peripheral blood of patients with hepatocellular carcinoma	The aim of this study was to analyze the expression profile of circRNAs in PBMCs in peripheral blood of patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) by next-generation sequencing, and to identify potential markers for early diagnosis and prognosis of HCC, and to lay a foundation for further study on the mechanism of this molecule in PBMCs.	NA
GSE125300	TOP2B disturbed the quality of human oocytes with advanced maternal age	STUDY QUESTION: Does maternal age affect the maturated oocyte quality and the fol-lowing development after fertilization in human?   SUMMARY ANSWER: Maternal age affects the quality of maturated oocytes by altering the stored mRNA levels in human, such as TOP2B.   WHAT IS KNOWN ALREADY: Intracellular mRNAs in maturated oocytes are tran-scripted from the maternal genome during oogenesis and important for the zygotic genome activation (ZGA) after fertilization. Microarray data showed that maternal age affected polyadenylated transcript abundance in human oocytes. These genes are involved in in signaling pathway related to cell cycle regulation, chromosome alignment. However, which genes are the key genes affected by maternal age and important for the development after fertilization had not been reported. Therefore, single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-Seq) technology is employed in this study to screen the key genes affected by maternal age in human maturated oocytes.  STUDY DESIGN, SIZE, DURATION: We isolated mRNA from maturated (MII) oo-cytes donated by IVF or ICSI patients (three oocytes from young (≤ 30 years) and three oocytes from advanced maternal age (≥ 40 years) patients) undergoing controlled ovarian stimulation. Thus, a total of six maturated oocytes were individually processed for scRNA-seq analysis. The key genes screened from scRNA-seq analysis are confirmed using mouse model.   PARTICIPANTS/MATERIALS, SETTING, METHODS:  Patients undergoing infertility treatment at the Yuhuangding Hospital of Yantai underwent ovarian stimulation with FSH and received hCG for final follicular maturation prior to ul-trasound guided oocyte retrieval. We isolated RNA, generated single cell RNA-seq librar-ies (Smart-Seq2) and sequenced by Illumina Hiseq X-ten platform with 150 bp paired-end. Bioinformatics analysis of the sequencing data was done to find the biological processes and key genes that led to the decline in the quality of oocytes with advanced maternal age. To validate the findings, we used mouse model and validated candidate genes by RT-PCR and knockdown experiments.  MAIN RESULTS AND THE ROLE OF CHANCE:  We identified 1439 genes differentially expressed between older and younger women's maturated oocytes (|foldchange|>2, P < 0.05). These genes are significantly enriched with annotations related to transporter activity, cytoskeleton, oxidative stress, catalytic activity, immune function, cellular senescence and biosynthesis. The key candidate gene TOP2B was found by protein interaction network analysis, and knockdown verification on young mouse maturated oocytes showed that TOP2B was a key gene affecting the oocyte quality and disturbing early embryo development.  LARGE SCALE DATA  Raw data from this study can be accessed through GSE.  LIMITATIONS, REASONS FOR CAUTION:   The human maturated oocytes used in this study were from patients with different causes of infertility and may affect oocyte gene expression. In addition, the study was based on a lim-ited number of patients, and there are possible natural biological variance existed in human samples.  WIDER IMPLICATIONS OF THE FINDINGS:  For the first time, we used scRNA-seq to detect global gene transcriptome of maturated oocytes in young and older women. These results are useful to indicate the molecular mechanisms of female ovary aging and establishing a criterion to evaluate the quality of oocytes in women with advanced maternal age.  STUDY FUNDING/COMPETING INTERESTS:  This research was supported by the National Key Research and Development Program of China (2018YFC1004304, 2016YFA0100203), Medical and Health Science Technology Development Plan Project of Shandong Province (Grant#. 2017WS566). There are no competing interests.	knockdown/pathway
GSE125421	A comprehensive gene expression  analysis identifies novel  immune signatures in cesarean-born infants	The rate of cesarean delivery (CD) in China has risen sharply and the high rate was reported to be associated with increased risk of disease in the offspring. However, there is little research on the molecular mechanism of critical pathways and gene signatures involved in the neonatal immunity of cesarean-born infants. This study was undertaken to identify unique gene signatures which was involved in the neonatal immunity of cesarean-born infants through large-scale RNA-sequencing. Genes differentially expressed in cesarean-born infants were identified and further validated through quantitative real-time PCR (RT-qPCR). Moreover, we employed weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) to identify highly connected genes that were correlated with neonatal inflammation. In total, 73 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified between cesarean-born infants and normal vagina childbirth. The results obtained by secondary validation indicated that GATM, MIF, IFI27, IL1B, CA1, and EPHB1 were significantly upregulated in phenotype CD, while CYP2A6 and DLK1 were significantly down regulated. Further, functional and pathway enrichment analysis reveals perturbation of several DEGs involved in signaling pathways pertaining to immunoregulation, inflammation, apoptosis, and nervous development. Additionally, HLA-DOB popped out as a core gene in the process of inflammation, which might indicate the risk of cesarean-born infants for inflammatory disease. Notably, our study for the first time has documented gene signatures PIK3CA, PTPRC, SOS1, IL6ST, and MALT1, which were found to be involved in neonatal inflammation. Taken together, the full expression repertoire including the differentially expressed gene sets and core differentially co-expressed genes should provide an excellent resource for identifying potential biomarkers of cesarean-born infants with inflammation, and formulating new hypotheses for physiological functions and the discovery of novel therapeutic targets for inflammatory disease.	pathway
GSE103035	Functional role of CPPED1 in trophoblasts.	Analysis of the effect of CPPED1 siRNA experiment	siRNA
GSE115137	The transcriptome of human endometrial mesenchymal stem cells under TGFβR inhibition reveals improved potential for cell-based therapies	Mesenchymal stem/stromal cells (MSCs) are multipotent cells with favorable properties for cell therapy and regenerative medicine. Human endometrium harbors a small population of perivascular, clonogenic MSCs (eMSCs) identified by the SUSD2 marker. As for other MSCs, eMSCs require extensive in vitro expansion to generate clinically relevant numbers of cells, resulting in spontaneous differentiation, replicative senescence, and cell death, decreasing therapeutic potency. We previously demonstrated that A83-01, a TGF-b receptor inhibitor maintained eMSCs clonogenicity, promoted proliferation, prevented apoptosis and maintained MSC function in vitro. Here we compare the transcriptome of passaged eMSCs from six women cultured with and without A83-01 for 7 days. We identified 1206 differentially expressed genes using a false discovery rate cut-off at 0.01 and fold change >2. Significant enrichment of genes involved in inflammatory responses, angiogenesis, cell migration and proliferation, and reduced smooth muscle proliferation, collagen fibril and extracellular matrix organization genes were revealed. TGF-b, Wnt and Akt signaling pathways were decreased. Anti-fibrotic and anti-apoptotic genes were induced, and fibroblast proliferation and myofibroblast related genes were down-regulated. We validated the enhanced potency of A83-01-treated eMSCs and found increased MSC potency genes (TWIST1, TWIST2, JAG1, LIFR, and SLIT2) and no pluripotency gene expression. Increased angiogenic capacity was functionally demonstrated in vitro, and our angiogenic and cytokine protein arrays further confirmed the angiogenic, antifibrotic and immunomodulatory phenotype of A83-01-treated eMSCs. Overall, we showed that eMSCs culture expanded with A83-01 have improved potential for cell-therapies and regenerative medicine applications.	pathway
GSE121951	polyA RNA Sequencing Analysis of HTR-8/SVneo cells after lnc-SLC4A1-1 overexpression	To further evaluate the functional role of lnc- SLC4A1-1, we overexpressed lnc-SLC4A1-1 in HTR-8/SVneo cells and isolated RNA for RNA-seq. RNA-seq was done using TruSeq Stranded mRNA Library Preparation. Briefly, intact RNA was fragmented, end repaired, adapter ligation and PCR amplified following illumina protocol. Libraries were sequencing by illumins Hiseq 3000. After quality control, sequence data were processed with STAR to generate read alignments with hg19. Raw read counts for annotated genes were obtained with featureCounts with default settings, normalized and analyzed using DEGseq.	NA
GSE125577	Global Gene Expression Changes in Cholangiocytes Treated with TGF-beta	The growth factor, TGF-beta can have profound effect on global gene expression changes. Since TGF-beta signaling is not well studied in liver epithelia, RNA-seq analysis was performed to evaluate TGF-beta signaling in cholangiocytes.	NA
GSE106617	Genome wide expression change by RNF168 knocking down in MCF-7 cells	We aim to the investigate the role of RNF168 in breast cancer progression. MCF-7 cells were used as the model and RNF168 was silenced by siRNA.	Breast cancer/Cancer/siRNA
GSE108632	Paclitaxel plus Cirmtuzumab Achieves Greater Clearance of Patient-derived Xenografts By Targeting ROR1+ Breast Cancer Stem Cells	We applied  high-throughput sequence to identify signaling pathways, stem cell gene signature or target genes of BMI1 that were affected by our newly development humainzed anti-ROR1 antibody (cirmtuzumab) in breast cancer patient-derived xenograft (PDX) mice model	Breast cancer/Cancer
GSE110512	Gene expression analysis of dengue-infected cells	We use RNA-seq on mRNA to identify genes that are differential expressed in human cells following dengue virus infection	NA
GSE115364	IDH3a KO RNA-seq	RNA-seq of NHAs with either wild-type IDH3a expression (control) or IDH3a KO via CRISPR/Cas9	NA
GSE118532	Genome wide expression change by RNF168 knocking down in NEC cells	We aim to the investigate the role of RNF168 in breast cancer progression. NEC cells were used as the model and RNF168 was silenced by siRNA.	Breast cancer/Cancer/siRNA
GSE118774	Genome wide expression change in LCC2 and MCF-7 cells	We aim to the investigate the role of tamoxifen in breast cancer progression. LCC2 and MCF-7 cells were used as the resistant and sensitive model.	Breast cancer/Cancer
GSE119331	Molecular Pathology of adverse local tissue reaction caused by metal-on-metal implants	RNA-sequencing analysis of periacetabular synovial tissue collected from patients undergoing a revision total hip arthroplasty (rTHA) after failure of a Cobalt Chromium implant. Comparisons were made to periacetabular synovial tissue collected from patients undergoing primary THAs (pTHA). Results: Analysis of tissue biopsies by RNA-sequencing revealed that MoM patient samples exhibit significantly increased expression of immune response genes but decreased expression of genes related to extracellular matrix (ECM) remodeling.	NA
GSE120201	Widespread backtracking by RNA pol II is a major effector of gene activation, 5’ pause release, termination and transcription elongation rate	In addition to phosphodiester bond formation, RNA polymerase II has an RNA endonuclease activity, stimulated by TFIIS, which rescues complexes that have arrested and backtracked. We identified backtracking sites using mNET-seq in human cells expressing dominant-negative TFIIS (TFIISDN) that inhibits RNA cleavage and stabilizes backtracked complexes. Backtracking is most frequent within 2 kb of start sites, consistent with slow elongation early in transcription, and in 3’ flanking regions where termination is enhanced by TFIISDN. Inhibition of the rescue from backtracked pol II by TFIISDN impaired the escape from 5’ pause sites, the completion of long transcripts, and activation of stress-inducible genes. TFIISDN slowed elongation rates genome-wide by half as measured by sequencing nascent transcripts pulse labeled with Bromouridine (Bru-seq) and by anti-pol II ChIP-seq at time points after release of a DRB block. These results suggest that rescue of backtracked pol II by TFIIS is a major stimulus of elongation.	NA
GSE121757	Assessing the effect of SUPT4H1 RNAi on the transcription of a repeat-containing reporter construct	SUPT4H1 is a transcription elongation factor comprising part of the RNA polymerase II complex. Recent studies propose a selective role for SUPT4H1 in transcription of repeat-containing transcripts, the translated products of which are a hallmark of neurodegeneration in disorders such as Huntington’s Disease and C9orf72-amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. To investigate the potential of SUPT4H1 as a therapeutic target in repeat-associated neurodegeneration, we engineered a reporter containing 71 hexanucleotide repeats (HNRs) encoding for pDi-amino acid repeats (DARPs) fused to EGFP. To approximate endogenous expression levels, the reporter also incorporated human C9orf72 intronic DNA immediately 5' of the hexanucleotide repeats. The reporter construct was integrated into the genome of HEK293t cells. We assessed the effect of depleting SUPT4H1 by RNAi interference on the transcriptome as a whole and on the DARP-EGFP reporter.	Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis/Huntington’s disease/Huntington
GSE121995	H1609088 Human RNA-Sequencing	Transcriptome profiling of KYSE30 cells after intracellular invasion by Porphyromonas gingivalis  Purpose: Overabundance of Porphyromonas gingivalis (P. gingivalis) plays oncogenic roles in development and progression of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC). To unveil the molecular mechanisms underlying the tumor-promoting role, RNAseq was used to identify differentially expressed genes in response to P. gingivalis in KYSE30 cells.  Methods: mRNA profiles were generated by deep sequencing for P. gingivalis-treated KYSE30 cells and PBS-treated control cells in triplicate. RNAseq data were mapped to human genome (hg19) using Hisat2. Differentially expressed genes were identified using StringTiel and Ballgown.  Results: A total of 10 239 genes and a total of 10 297 genes were identified in KYSE30 cells treated with P. gingivalis and PBS, respectively. After expression quantification using Ballgown, 124 up-regulated genes and 122 down-regulated genes were identified in P. gingivalis-treated KYSE30 cells compared with PBS-treated cells. Enrichment analysis of GO and KEGG pathway showed response to virus, innate immune response, Herpes simplex infection, metabolism of xenobiotics by cytochrome P450 and tyrosine metabolism were enriched in P. gingivalis-treated KYSE30 cells.  Conclusions: This study reveals that P. gingivalis infection in ESCC triggers immune response and may cause deregulation of signal transduction through tyrosine metabolism.	pathway
GSE122069	Premature polyadenylation-mediated loss of stathmin-2 is a hallmark of TDP-43-dependent neurodegeneration	Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD) are associated with loss of nuclear TDP-43. Here we identify that TDP-43 regulates expression of the neuronal growth-associated factor stathmin-2. Lowered TDP-43 levels, which reduce its binding to sites within the first intron of stathmin-2 pre-mRNA, uncover a cryptic polyadenylation site whose utilization produces a truncated, non-functional mRNA. Reduced stathmin-2 expression is found in neurons trans-differentiated from patient fibroblasts expressing an ALS-causing TDP-43 mutation, in motor cortex and spinal motor neurons from sporadic ALS patients and familial ALS patients with expansion in C9orf72, and in induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-derived motor neurons depleted of TDP-43. Remarkably, while reduction in TDP-43 is shown to inhibit axonal regeneration of iPSC-derived motor neurons, rescue of stathmin-2 expression restores axonal regenerative capacity. Thus, premature polyadenylation-mediated reduction in stathmin-2 is a hallmark of ALS/FTD that functionally links reduced nuclear TDP-43 function to enhanced neuronal vulnerability.	Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis
GSE122761	Acetylation of spliceosome protein PHF5A modulates stress responses and colorectal carcinogenesis through alternative splicing mediated upregulation of KDM3A	The process utilized by cancer cells for adapting to cellular stress is a key point for carcinogenesis. Alternative pre-mRNA splicing induced post-transcriptional gene expression regulation is one of the pathways for tumors maintaining proliferation rates accompanying the malignant phenotype under stress. However, the protein post-translational modification, especially protein acetylation on pre-mRNA splicing processes under stress is unknown. Here, we uncovered a list of hyperacetylated proteins in the context of acutely reduced Acetyl-CoA levels under nutrient starvation. PHD finger-like domain-containing protein 5A (PHF5A/SF3b14b), a component of U2 snRNPs, can be acetylated at lysine 29 in response to multiple cellular stresses. P300 and HDAC6 regulate PHF5A acetylation levels. PHF5A acetylation strengthens the interaction among U2 snRNPs, and affects global pre-mRNA splicing pattern and extensive gene expression. PHF5A hyperacetylation induced alternative splicing stabilizes KDM3A mRNA and promotes its protein expression. Pathologically, PHF5A K29 hyperacetylation and KDM3A upregulation axis are correlated with poor prognosis of colon cancer patients. Our findings uncovered a novel mechanism of anti-stress pathway that acetylation on PHF5A promotes the cancer cells capacity for stress resistance and consequently contributes to colon carcinogenesis.	Cancer/pathway
GSE123968	Comprehensive Transcriptome Analysis of Cerebral Cavernous Malformation Across Multiple Species and Genotypes	Purpose: To determine important genes, functions, and networks contributing to the pathobiology of cerebral cavernous malformation (CCM) from transcriptomic analyses across 3 species and 2 disease genotypes. Methods: Sequencing of RNA from laser microdissected  neurovascular units (NVUs) of 5 human surgically resected CCM lesions, mouse brain microvascular ECs (BMECs) and C. elegans with induced Ccm gene loss, and their respective controls, provided differentially expressed genes (DEGs). DEGs from mouse and C. elegans were annotated into human homologous genes. Cross-comparisons of DEGs between species and genotypes as well as network and Gene Ontology (GO) enrichment analyses were performed. Results: Among hundreds of DEGs identified in each model, common genes and one GO term (GO:0051656 establishment of organelle localization) were commonly identified across the different species and genotypes. In addition, 24 GO functions were present in 4 out of 5 models and were related to cell-cell adhesion, neutrophil mediated immunity, ion transmembrane transporter activity, and responses to oxidative stress. We provide a comprehensive transcriptome library of CCM disease across species, and for the first time in Ccm1/Krit1 versus Ccm3/Pdcd10 genotypes Conclusion: We provide examples of how results can be used in hypothesis generation or mechanistic confirmatory studies.	NA
GSE124519	lncRNA-PCAT1 knockdown effect on the gene expression of androgen independent LNCaP (LNCaP-AI) cell line	We generated and characterized an androgen-independent LNCaP-AI cell line by long-term culture of androgen-dependent LNCaP cells in RPMI-1640 medium containing charcoal-stripped serum. This approach used to generate the line mimics the castration resistant condition for treating prostate cancer, supporting the relevance of the LNCAP-AI cell line to Castration Resistant Prostate Cancer. 	knockdown
GSE125222	Novel mutations segregating with Complete Androgen Insensitivity Syndrome and their molecular characteristics.	We analysed three interesting, rare cases of CAIS (Complete Androgen Insensitivity Syndrome) and report three hitherto undisclosed causes of the disease. Comparative RNA-Seq analysis of CAIS and control samples (3 testicular oligobiopsies from men with normal spermatogenesis) revealed 4,293 significantly deregulated genes.	NA
GSE126504	Next Generation Sequencing Facilitates Quantitative Analysis of SW480 cells and HPSE-knockdown SW480 cells Transcriptomes	Heparanase (HPSE), the only known mammalian endoglycosidase responsible for heparan sulfate cleavage, is a multi-faceted protein affecting multiple malignant behaviors in cancer cells. The goals of this study are to compare the mRNA transcriptome differences between SW480 cells and HPSE-knockdown SW480 cells. Methods: mRNA profiles of SW480 cells and HPSE-knockdown SW480 cells were generated by deep sequencing, in triplicate, using Illumina.	knockdown
GSE128392	CD8+ T cells regulate tumor ferroptosis during cancer immunotherapy	CD8+ T cells activated by cancer immunotherapy execute tumor clearance mainly by inducing cell death through perforin-granzyme- and Fas/Fas ligand-pathways. Ferroptosis is a form of cell death that differs from apoptosis and results from iron-dependent lipid peroxide accumulation. Although it was mechanistically illuminated in vitro, emerging evidence has shown that ferroptosis may be implicated in a variety of pathological scenarios. However, the involvement of ferroptosis in T cell immunity and cancer immunotherapy is unknown. Here, we find that immunotherapy-activated CD8+ T cells enhance ferroptosis-specific lipid peroxidation in tumor cells, and in turn, increased ferroptosis contributes to the anti-tumor efficacy of immunotherapy. Mechanistically, IFNg released from CD8+ T cells downregulates expression of SLC3A2 and SLC7A11, two subunits of glutamate-cystine antiporter system xc-, restrains tumor cell cystine uptake, and as a consequence, promotes tumor cell lipid peroxidation and ferroptosis. In preclinical models, depletion of cyst(e)ine by cyst(e)inase in combination with checkpoint blockade synergistically enhances T cell-mediated anti-tumor immunity and induces tumor cell ferroptosis. Thus, T cell-promoted tumor ferroptosis is a novel anti-tumor mechanism. Targeting tumor ferroptosis pathway constitutes a therapeutic approach in combination with checkpoint blockade.	Cancer
GSE78178	Effect of BB608 on Gene Expression in HNSCC Cell Line	Study to determine the genome wide effects on transcripton in FaDu cells treated with BB608, a transcription factor inhibitor	NA
GSE104425	Arrayed molecular barcoding identifies TNFSF13 as a positive regulator of acute myeloid leukemia-initiating cells	Dysregulation of cytokines in the bone marrow microenvironment promotes acute myeloid leukemia cell growth. Due to the complexity and low throughput of in vivo stem-cell based assays, studying the role of cytokines in the bone marrow niche in a screening setting is challenging. Herein, we developed an ex vivo cytokine screen using 11 arrayed molecular barcodes, allowing for a competitive in vivo readout of leukemia-initiating capacity. With this approach, we assessed the effect of 114 murine cytokines on MLL-AF9 acute myeloid leukemia mouse cells and identified the tumor necrosis factor ligand superfamily member 13 (TNFSF13) as a positive regulator of leukemia-initiating cells. By using Tnfsf13-/- recipient mice, we confirmed that TNFSF13 supports leukemia-initiation also under physiological conditions. TNFSF13 was secreted by normal myeloid cells but not by leukemia mouse cells, suggesting that mature myeloid bone marrow cells support leukemia cells by secreting TNFSF13. TNFSF13 supported leukemia cell proliferation in an NF-κB-dependent manner by binding TNFRSF17 and suppressed apoptosis. Moreover, TNFSF13 supported the growth and survival of several human myeloid leukemia cell lines, demonstrating that our findings translate to human disease. Taken together, using arrayed molecular barcoding, we identified a previously unrecognized role of TNFSF13 as a positive regulator of acute myeloid leukemia-initiating cells. The arrayed barcoded screening methodology is not limited to cytokines and leukemia, but can be extended to other types of ex vivo screens, where a multiplexed in vivo read-out of stem cell functionality is needed.	Acute Myeloid Leukemia
GSE105253	Expression analysis of THP1 cells following shRNA knock-down of RUVBL2	We used an inducible shRNA system and RNA-Seq to examine gene expression changes in acute myeloid leukemia THP1 cells following silencing of RUVBL2. RUVBL2 is a AAA+ ATPase that functions in a number of cellular processes, including chromatin remodeling and trnascriptional control, and is critical for survival of acute myeloid leukemia cells and in vivo disease progression.	knock-down
GSE109120	Sex Differences in the Late First Trimester Human Placenta Transcriptome	This study is the first characterization of the first trimester placenta transcriptome, highlighting similarities and differences among the sexes in ongoing human pregnancies resulting in live births. Sexual dimorphism may contribute to pregnancy outcomes, including fetal growth and birth weight, which was seen in our cohort, with males significantly heavier than females at birth. This transcriptome provides a basis for development of early diagnostic tests of placental function that can indicate overall pregnancy heath, fetal-maternal health, and long term adult health.	NA
GSE110525	The long non-coding RNA MALAT1 contributes to the pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis through alternative splicing and backsplicing regulation	Since we found an upregulation of the long non coding RNA MALAT1 in Multiple Sclerosis (MS) patients, we decided to explore the global effect of MALAT1 modulation on transcriptome. We hence performed high-coverage RNA-seq experiments of MALAT1 knockdown in Jurkat E6-1 T cells to analyze gene expression, alternative splicing (AS), and backsplicing profiles. We found 107 differentially expressed genes, 1114 dysregulated AS events, and 49 circular RNAs that were modulated by MALAT1. These results highlighted the role of MALAT1  in splicing and backsplicing regulation.	knockdown
GSE113861	Nascent RNA Sequencing after NMYC activation in SH-EP MYCNER cells	In order to distinguish transcription changes from RNA modification and post transcription changed, nascent RNA seq via metabolic labeling of freshly synthesized RNA was carried out using 4sU labeling/biotin purification.	NA
GSE115849	RNA seq comparison between scrambled and shGRP78 cells	Pancreatic cancer cells transduced with sh knockdown of GRP78	Cancer/Pancreatic cancer/knockdown
GSE116241	Identification of atheroprone shear stress responsive regulatory elements in endothelial cells	While variations in gene transcription networks in models of atherosclerosis have been reported, the underlying changes in the chromatin landscape induced by pro-atherogenic stimuli remain elusive. In the present study, we report changes in chromatin regulatory elements that mediate transcriptional control upon the application of oscillatory shear stress of ±3 dyn/cm2 in primary cultured human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) at 6 h time point of oscillatory shear stress stimulation compared to static condition.	NA
GSE118101	Next Generation Sequencing upon siRNA-mediated knockdown of DRAIC in MCF-7 cells.	The goal of this study is to examine the effect of DRAIC knockdown on the MCF-7 transcriptome.	siRNA/knockdown
GSE121307	mRNA sequencing analysis of cultured human primary airway epithelial cells upon exposure to PMN exosomes	We analyzed the mRNA expression of monolayers of human primary airway epithelial cells after exposure to 1X10^5 exosomes from activated or quiescent PMNs along with PBS treated controls	NA
GSE121871	Multidimensional Assessment of the Host Response in Mechanically Ventilated Patients with Suspected Pneumonia	Rationale: Patients in the intensive care unit (ICU) are frequently exposed to unnecessary antibiotics. Markers of the host response to infection may aid pneumonia diagnosis and avoid antibiotic-induced complications. Objective: To assess the host response to suspected bacterial pneumonia through assessment of alveolar neutrophilia and transcriptomic profiling of alveolar macrophages. Methods: We determined the test characteristics of BAL neutrophilia for the diagnosis of bacterial pneumonia in 3 cohorts of mechanically ventilated patients. In one cohort, we also isolated alveolar macrophages from BAL fluid and used the transcriptome to identify signatures of bacterial pneumonia. Finally, we developed a humanized mouse model of Pseudomonas aeruginosa pneumonia to determine if pathogen-specific signatures can be identified in human alveolar macrophages. Measurements and Main Results: BAL neutrophilia was highly sensitive for bacterial pneumonia in both the retrospective (N = 851) and validation cohorts (N = 76 and N = 79) with a negative predictive value of over 90% when BAL neutrophil percentage was less than 50%. A transcriptional signature of bacterial pneumonia was present in both resident and recruited macrophages. Gene signatures from both cell types identified patients with bacterial pneumonia with test characteristics similar to BAL neutrophilia. Conclusions: A BAL neutrophil percentage of less than 50% is highly sensitive for bacterial pneumonia. Informative transcriptomic signatures can be generated from BAL fluid obtained during routine clinical care in the ICU. The identification of novel host response biomarkers is a promising approach to aid the diagnosis and treatment of pneumonia.	NA
GSE122486	RNA-sequencing WT vs SOCS3 knockout Glioblastoma stem-cells	Glioblastoma stem cells were infected with lentivirus expressing a non-targeting (gRNA-LacZ) or SOCS3 targeting gRNA to assess the function of SOCS3 in the stem cell compartment of Glioblastoma	knockout
GSE124450	Integrative analysis identifies lincRNAs up- and downstream of neuroblastoma driver genes (ALK)	Long intergenic non-coding RNAs (lincRNAs) are emerging as integral components of signaling pathways in various cancer types. In neuroblastoma, only a handful of lincRNAs are known as upstream regulators or downstream effectors of oncogenes. Here, we exploit RNA sequencing data of primary neuroblastoma tumors, neuroblast precursor cells, neuroblastoma cell lines and various cellular perturbation model systems to define the neuroblastoma lincRNome and map lincRNAs up- and downstream of neuroblastoma driver genes MYCN, ALK and PHOX2B. Each of these driver genes controls the expression of a particular subset of lincRNAs, several of which are associated with poor survival and are differentially expressed in neuroblastoma tumors compared to neuroblasts. By integrating RNA sequencing data from both primary tumor tissue and cancer cell lines, we demonstrate that several of these lincRNAs are expressed in stromal cells. Deconvolution of primary tumor gene expression data revealed a strong association between stromal cell composition and driver gene status, resulting in differential expression of these lincRNAs. We also explored lincRNAs that putatively act upstream of neuroblastoma driver genes, either as presumed modulators of driver gene activity, or as modulators of effectors regulating driver gene expression. This analysis revealed strong associations between the neuroblastoma lincRNAs MIAT and MEG3 and MYCN and PHOX2B activity or expression. Together, our results provide a comprehensive catalogue of the neuroblastoma lincRNome, highlighting lincRNAs up- and downstream of key neuroblastoma driver genes. This catalogue forms a solid basis for further functional validation of candidate neuroblastoma lincRNAs.	Cancer/pathway
GSE124508	MDM2 and MDM4 are Therapeutic Vulnerabilities in Malignant Rhabdoid Tumors	Malignant rhabdoid tumors (MRT) are highly aggressive pediatric cancers that respond poorly to current therapies. We screened several MRT cell lines each with large-scale RNAi, CRISPR-Cas9, and small-molecule libraries to identify potential drug targets specific for these cancers.  We discovered MDM2 and MDM4, the canonical negative regulators of p53, as significant vulnerabilities. Using two compounds currently in clinical development, idasanutlin and ATSP-7041, we show that MRT cells are more sensitive than other p53 wild-type cancer cell lines to MDM2 and dual MDM2/4 inhibition in vitro. These compounds cause significant upregulation of the p53 pathway in MRT cells, and sensitivity is ablated by CRISPR-Cas9-mediated inactivation of TP53. We show that loss of SMARCB1, a subunit of the SWI/SNF (BAF) complex mutated in nearly all MRT, sensitizes cells to MDM2 and MDM2/4 inhibition by enhancing p53-mediated apoptosis. Both MDM2 and MDM2/4 inhibition slowed MRT xenograft growth in vivo, with a five-day idasanutlin pulse causing marked regression of all xenografts including durable complete responses in 50% of mice. Together, these studies identify a genetic connection between mutations in the SWI/SNF chromatin-remodeling complex and the tumor suppressor gene p53, and provide preclinical evidence to support the targeting of MDM2 and MDM4 in this often-fatal pediatric cancer.	Cancer/pathway
GSE125602	RNA-sequencing of fibrolamellar carcinoma (FLC) cell line treated with miR-375 mimic	Fibrolamellar carcinoma (FLC) is a rare liver cancer. Expression of miR-375 is significantly lost in primary FLC tumors compared to non-malignant liver. Here, we treated a FLC cell line with miR-375 mimic or scramble control to determine the function of miR-375 in FLC.	Cancer
GSE125686	Transcriptomic profiling of peripheral blood NK cells of chronic HBV, HCV and HIV patients	Background: NK cells during chronic viral infection have been well studied over the last decade. We performed an unbiased next-generation RNA-sequencing approach to identify commonalities or differences of the effect of HIV, HCV and HBV viremia on NK cell transcriptomes. Methods: Using cell sorting, we obtained CD3-CD56+ NK cells from blood of 6 HIV, 11 HCV, and 32 HBV infected and untreated patients. Library preparation and sequencing were done using Illumina mRNA-Seq Sample Prep Kit and the HiSeq 2000, HiSeq2500 or NextSeq 500, and further analysis by an in-house analytic pipeline. Results: In NK cells from HIV, HCV and HBV patients, transcriptome analysis identified 272, 53, and 56 differentially expressed genes, respectively (fold change >1.5, q-value 0.2). Interferon stimulated genes were induced in NK cells from HIV/HCV patients, but not during HBV infection. HIV viremia downregulated ribosome assembly genes in NK cells. In HBV, viral load and ALT variation had little effect on genes related to NK effector function. Conclusion: We compare, for the first time, NK cell transcripts of viremic HIV, HCV and HBV patients. We clearly demonstrate distinctive NK cell gene signatures in 3 different populations, suggestive for a different degree of functional alterations of the NK cell compartment as compared to healthy individuals.	NA
GSE125829	Newly defined ABCB5+ dermal mesenchymal stem cells promote healing of chronic iron overload wounds via secretion of interleukin-1 receptor antagonist	Here we report the beneficial effects of a newly identified dermal cell subpopulation expressing the ATP-binding cassette subfamily B member 5 (ABCB5) for the therapy of non-healing wounds. Local administration of dermal ABCB5+-derived MSCs attenuated macrophage-dominated inflammation and thereby accelerated healing of full-thickness excisional wounds in the iron overload mouse model mimicking the non-healing state of human venous leg ulcers. The observed beneficial effects were due to interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1RA) secreted by ABCB5+-derived MSCs, which dampened inflammation and shifted the prevalence of unrestrained pro-inflammatory M1 macrophages towards repair promoting anti-inflammatory M2 macrophages at the wound site. The beneficial anti-inflammatory effect of IL-1RA released from ABCB5+-derived MSCs on human wound macrophages was conserved in humanized NOD-scid IL2rγnull mice. In conclusion, human dermal ABCB5+ cells represent a novel, easy accessible and marker-enriched source of MSCs which holds substantial promise to successfully treat chronic non-healing wounds in humans.	NA
GSE126530	Next Generation Sequencing of isolated EGFR+ and HLA-G+ first trimester human trophoblasts	The aim of this study was to identify differentially expressed signatures of non-invasive (EGFR+) and invasive (HLA-G+) human trophoblast subtypes. These populations were isolated from single first trimester placentas from 10-12 weeks of gestation.	NA
GSE126537	Rorc disruption in human FG pancreatic cancer cells	Rorc disruption in human FG pancreatic cancer cells	Cancer/Pancreatic cancer
GSE128740	Alterations of the MEK/ERK, BMP, and Wnt/b-catenin pathways detected in the blood of individuals with lymphatic malformations	Lymphatic malformation (LM) is a developmental anomaly of the lymphatic system that may lead to disfigurement, organ dysfunction and recurrent infection. Though several treatment modalities exist, pharmacotherapy is often associated with side effects and recurrence is common following surgical interventions. Moreover, despite the recent discovery of PIK3CA mutations in lymphatic endothelial cells of LM patients, the full spectrum of molecular pathways involved in LM pathogenesis is poorly understood. Here, we performed RNA sequencing on blood samples obtained from ten LM patients and nine healthy subjects and found 421 differentially expressed genes that stratify LM subjects from healthy controls. Using this LM gene signature, we identified novel pathway alterations in LM, such as oxidative phosphorylation, MEK/ERK, bone morphogenetic protein (BMP), and Wnt/b-catenin pathways, in addition to confirming the known alterations in cell cycle and the PI3K/AKT pathway. Furthermore, we performed computational drug repositioning analysis to predict existing therapies (e.g. sirolimus) and novel classes of drugs for LM. These findings deepen our understanding of LM pathogenesis and may facilitate non-invasive diagnosis, pathway analysis and therapeutic development.	pathway
GSE111881	Transcriptome analysis of total RNA in human osteosarcoma cell line U2OS before and after inhibition of zinc finger protein ZNF768	Inhibition of ZNF768 function was achieved by conditional over expression expression of the C-terminal zinc finger of ZNF768 for 12h. For preparation of total RNA cells were resuspended in TRIzol reagent (Life Technologies) at 0.9Mio/ml and snap-frozen.  After thawing RNA was extracted from 0.4ml of TriZol lysate using the direct-zol RNA Miniprep (Zymo Research, Irvine CA, USA) as described in the manufacturer’s protocol. RNA was assessed for purity by UV-vis spectrometry (Nanodrop) and for integrity by Bioanalyzer (Agilent Bioanalyzer 2100, Agilent, Santa Clara USA)). RNA was of high purity (abs. 260/280 >1.9, abs 269/239>2.1) and integrity (Bioanalyzer RIN>9 ) and thus used for further processing. For production of RNA-seq libraries total RNA was DNAse treated (dsDNAse, Fermentas) and 100 ng of this RNA was processed with a strand-specific protocol (RNA-seq complete kit, NuGEN, San Carlos, USA). In brief the RNA was reverse transcribed to cDNA with a reduced set of hexamer primers, avoiding excessive representation of rRNA in the cDNA. Second strand cDNA synthesis was done in presence of dUTP. After ultrasonic fragmentation of the cDNA and end repair, Illumina-compatible adapter were ligated. Adapters contained uracil in one strand, allowing complete digestion of the second-strand derived DNA. After strand selection the libraries were amplified, assessed for correct insert size on the Agilent Bioanalyser and diluted to 10nM. Barcoded libraries were mixed in equimolar amounts and sequenced on an Illumina HiSeq1500 in single-read mode with a read length of 100 b.	NA
GSE84620	Transcriptomic changes mediated by β-amyloid in human aortic endothelial cells (HAOEC)	We found that β-amyloid accumulation is modulated in HAOEC cells by overexpression or blocking of lncRNA BACE1-AS, which in turn regulates both BACE1 mRNA and protein expression. BACE1 is key-enzyme in the synthesis of β-amyloid from Amyloid Precursor Protein (APP). The transcriptomic changes mediated by 400nM  β-amyloid was investigated in HAOEC cells.	NA
GSE105771	Transcriptional profile of human STAT1-/- fibroblasts expressing IFI6 or empty control vector	Detection of viral infection by pattern-recognition receptors triggers production of interferon. Secreted interferon binds to cognate receptors, triggering JAK/STAT signaling, resulting in the transcription and production of hundreds of interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs). Our lab identified interferon alpha inducible protein 6 (IFI6) as an ISG that potently suppresses replication of viruses from the Flavivirus genus. To test whether the inhibitory effects of IFI6 were due to activating expression of other antiviral ISGs, we overexpressed IFI6 and a control vector and examined global transcription using RNA-Seq.	NA
GSE107868	RNA-sequencing and swarm intelligence-enhanced classification algorithm development for blood-based disease diagnostics using spliced blood platelet RNA	We report RNA-sequencing data of 80 tumor-educated blood platelet (TEP) samples isolated from 39 patients with lower-grade glioma (LGG) and 41 healthy donors (HD). This dataset can be employed as input for the thromboSeq source code (available via GitHub: https://github.com/MyronBest/) to reproduce the thromboSeq drylab pipeline.	Glioma
GSE110278	Induction of human regulatory innate lymphoid cells from group 2 innate lymphoid cells by retinoic acid	We aimed to determine the characteristic of IL-10-producing ILCs induced from ILC2s by RA. We found that IL-10-producing ILCs has distinct characteristic compared to IL-10 negative ILCs.	NA
GSE111958	Transcriptional profile of human STAT1-/- fibroblasts expressing LY6E or empty control vector	Detection of viral infection by pattern-recognition receptors triggers production of interferon. Secreted interferon binds to cognate receptors, triggering JAK/STAT signaling, resulting in the transcription and production of hundreds of interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs). Our lab identified lymphocyte antigen 6, locus E (LY6E) as an ISG that enhances infectivity of a subset of enveloped RNA viruses from Flaviviridae, Orthomyxoviridae, and Togaviridae families. To test whether the enhancing effects of LY6E were due to alterations of the global cellular transcriptome, we overexpressed LY6E and a control empty vector and examined global transcription using RNA-Seq.	NA
GSE114708	Transcriptomic analysis of acute mitochondrial pyruvate carrier inhibition using UK5099 in ABL prostate cancer cells	ABL cells (derivative of LNCaP) were treated with 100µM UK5099 or vehicle (control) for 72 hours, at which time total RNA was collected and analyzed using RNA-sequencing	Cancer/Prostate cancer
GSE115850	RNA deep sequencing analysis of human brain microvascular endothelial cells (ECs) treated with glioma-conditioned medium (glioma-CM)	To determine the effects of glioma-conditioned medium on global gene expression in ECs.	Glioma
GSE116943	RNA expression in BRCA2-depleted breast cancer cell lines	Next generation RNA sequencing was performed to analyze changes in gene expression upon BRCA2 depletion. BRCA2 depletion was introduced in two human breast cancer cell lines with doxycyclin inducible short hairpin RNAs.	Breast cancer/Cancer
GSE117875	Transcriptomic profile of intestinal epithelial cells obtained from ileal endoscopic biopsies from newly-diagnosed, pediatric Crohn's disease patients and healthy controls.	Purpose: To uncover differentially-regulated transcripts and pathways/biological processes in newly-diagnosed, pediatric Crohn's disease in comparison to healthy controls. Methods: Intestinal epithelial cells were dissociated from ileal endoscopic biopsies, and stored at -80C in RNAlater.  The polyA RNA fraction was purified, and single-end, 50 bp reads were sequenced and aligned to the Hg19 genome using the TopHat2 aligner.  Differential analysis was performed using Bioconductor packages including edgeR, where significance was defined as p<0.05 and fold change>2. Results: We obtained 15788 reasonably-expressed transcripts that were included in differential analyses. Conclusions: Our study characterizes the dysregulation of intestinal epithelial cells in treatment-naïve Crohn's disease using RNA sequencing for transcriptomic profile of cells obtained through ileal endoscopic biopsies.	Crohn's disease
GSE117910	Examining serotonergic neuron differentiation from human iPSCs	The goals of this study were to study serotonergic neuron differentiation from patient derived iPSCs	NA
GSE118567	Acetyl-CoA carboxylase inhibition regulates microtubule dynamics and intracellular transport in cystic fibrosis epithelial cells	In this study, we hypothesize that acetyl CoA carboxylase (ACC) is an important intermediate in Cystic fibrosis (CF) inflammatory signaling cascade.  Here, we demonstrate that ACC inhibition mimics the cellular effects of ibuprofen promoting both redistribution of intracellular cholesterol and increased rates of microtubule reformation, while decreasing RhoA expression in CF epithelial cell models.  Inhibiting ACC polymerization with citrate increases RhoA expression and decreases microtubule reformation rates in wild-type epithelial cells, suggesting pro-inflammatory signaling.  Together, these findings demonstrate a novel mechanism of high-dose ibuprofen efficacy and point to a potential new therapeutic target for anti-inflammatory drugs in CF.	NA
GSE120378	STX4 Over-Expression in Human islets	We have used RNA-seq to identify transcripts expressed in human islets harboring beta cells transduced  to overexpress STX4 and induce chemokine ligand by adenoviral transduction	NA
GSE121069	RNAseq of fluidically isolated human and mouse motor neuron somas and axons in vitro	Spinal motor axons traverse large distances to innervate target muscle, and thus require local control of cellular events for proper functioning of the distal axon. To interrogate axon-specific processes we developed Axon-seq, a refined method incorporating microfluidic devices and stringent bioinformatic quality controls. Axon-seq demonstrates improved sensitivity and accuracy in whole-transcriptome sequencing of axons compared to previously published studies. Importantly, we show that axon transcriptomes are distinct from those of somas, displaying fewer detected genes and no contaminating astrocytic markers. We identified >5,000 transcripts in stem cell-derived spinal motor axons required for local oxidative energy production and ribosome generation. Axons contained unique transcription factor mRNAs, e.g. Ybx1, with implications for local axonal functions. Cross-comparison with existing mouse motor axon datasets, as well as our own human motor axon data identified a common axon transcriptome. As motor axons degenerate in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), we investigated their response to the disease-causing SOD1G93A mutation, identifying 121 ALS-dysregulated transcripts. Several of these are implicated in axonal and dendritic outgrowth, including Nrp1, Dbn1, and Nek1, a known ALS-causing gene. In conclusion, Axon-seq proves a robust and improved method for RNA-seq of axons, furthers our understanding of peripheral axon biology, and identifies novel therapeutic targets to maintain neural connectivity in disease.	Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis
GSE122490	RNA-seq of HUVEC ± shRNA knockdown of SENCR	To assess the transcriptome of HUVEC where the SENCR is knocked down. SENCR is a lncRNA we show stabilizes the endothelial cell adherens junction by binding CKAP4 and indirectly localizing CDH5 at the cell membrane. The RNA-seq study was carried out to ascertain whether the effects of SENCR could be attributed to a function associated with sponging endogenous microRNAs that target proteins of the adgherens junction.	knockdown
GSE123681	Thymine DNA Glycosylase as a novel target for melanoma: effect of TDG silencing on gene expression in SK-mel-28 melanoma cells	Melanoma is an aggressive neoplasm with increasing incidence that is classified by the NCI as a recalcitrant cancer, i.e., a cancer with poor prognosis, lacking progress in diagnosis and treatment. In addition to conventional therapy, melanoma treatment is currently based on targeting the BRAF/MEK/ERK signaling pathway and immune checkpoints. As drug resistance remains a major obstacle to treatment success, advanced therapeutic approaches based on novel targets are still urgently needed. We reasoned that the base excision repair enzyme Thymine DNA Glycosylase (TDG) could be such a target for its dual role in safeguarding the genome and the epigenome, by performing the last of the multiple steps in DNA demethylation.	Melanoma
GSE125178	Probing the Global Cellular Responses to Lipotoxicity Caused by Saturated Fatty Acids	RNA sequencing technology was applied to determine the transcriptional changes due to palmitate treatment, RNF213 knockdown, and GPAT4 knockdown.	knockdown
GSE125917	Global gene expression profiles of cardiomyocytes differentiated from human pluripotent stem cells (hiPSC-CMs) in 3D culture exposed to ethanol	Methods: RNA-seq libraries were prepared using the Illumina TruSeq RNA kit and the TrueSeq method was employed for mRNA enrichment. The libraries were quantified and samples were multiplexed in each lane of the flowcell. Cluster generation was performed and then sequenced on the Illumina HiSeq2500 system. Reads were mapped on the Human Genome Reference and normalized expression table was generated. Results: RNA-seq results reveal gene expression of cardiac toxicity in hiPSC-CMs that are consistent with alcohol-induced pathophysiology observed in animal models.  For example MMP9 is among the top 5 upregulated genes in ethanol-treated hiPSC-CMs,  MMP9 concentrations are significantly higher in human sera of chronic alcohol abusers and MMP9 mRNA and protein levels are increased in the myocardium of rats following acute ethanol exposure. Conclusions: Data demonstrate significant alteration in gene expression, among the top 60 genes significantly altered by ethanol exposure, 8 genes are involved in ion channels, which may be in part contributing to the abnormal intracellular Ca2+ transients. Ethanol up-regulated the expression of genes associated with collagen metabolism and extracellular matrix (MMP9, EMID1, COL14A1), most of the downregulated genes are involved in cardiovascular system development (NPPB, DNAAF3), actin filament-based process (LMOD2, MYH4) and muscle contraction (MYL2).  These findings are consistent with previous studies showing a correlation between alcohol exposure and defects in heart and circulatory system development.	NA
GSE126548	Potential signaling pathways and gene signatures associated with brain metastases in NSCLC patients	RNA-Seq analyses of various cancers have identified thousands of target genes that help guide clinical treatment. By using RNA-Seq analysis, we examined primary lung tumors from NSCLC patients with and without BM to identify differentially-expressed genes and potential signaling pathways in two groups. A total of 6 patients with histopathologically confirmed NSCLC (against AJCC criteria) were enrolled in the RNA-Seq study, 3 patients with BM and other 3 without BM. All the cancer tissues used in this study were taken from surgical specimens and biopsies, and preserved immediately in liquid nitrogen after surgery. Totally, 566 differentially-expressed genes between BM+ and BM- samples were identified by DESeq2 with log2Fold Change being more than 2 and P value of statistical test less than 0.05, 326 genes were significantly down-regulated and 240 genes were up-regulated in BM+ group.	pathway
GSE126840	RNA-sequencing of Wnt-dependent and Wnt-independent of Glioblastoma stem cell cultures	Four Wnt-dependent and four Wnt-independent GSC cultures were grown in stem cell media and RNA expression between the two subsets evaluated	NA
GSE127736	Disruption of the exocyst induces podocyte loss and dysfunction	In this study we plan to compare the profiles of control sample (cultured podocytes) with the Exoc5 knock down in cutured podocytes to examine the differentially expressed genes.	knock down
GSE93716	Transfection experiment with vector containing TP73-AS1 sponge region and miR-941	miRNA sponge, a special class of miRNA target,  has been emerging as a pivotal player in miRNA mediated regulatory network. Currently, the identified miRNA sponge genes mostly act on sequestering conserved miRNAs (e.g. miR-7, miR-145), however, the existence, potential function and evolutionary process of miRNA sponge genes for species-specific miRNA, especially for human specific miRNA, are largely unknown. In this study, we conducted a systematic analysis including sponge gene identification and subsequent function and evolutionary analyses for an authentic human-specific miRNA, miR-941.	NA
GSE93717	miR941 overexpression experiment	miRNA sponge, a special class of miRNA target,  has been emerging as a pivotal player in miRNA mediated regulatory network. Currently, the identified miRNA sponge genes mostly act on sequestering conserved miRNAs (e.g. miR-7, miR-145), however, the existence, potential function and evolutionary process of miRNA sponge genes for species-specific miRNA, especially for human specific miRNA, are largely unknown. In this study, we conducted a systematic analysis including sponge gene identification and subsequent function and evolutionary analyses for an authentic human-specific miRNA, miR-941.	NA
GSE95173	Human Long Intergenic Noncoding RNA Linc-ADAL Knockdown in Mature Adipocytes using Lentiviral ShRNA	Thousands of human long intergenic noncoding RNAs (lincRNAs) have been detected in human adipose tissue. Here we characterized the function of one human adipse lincRNA, linc-ADAL (chr5:115292235-115296985) in mature adipcoytes through loss-of-function studies. Our results indicate that knockdown of linc-ADAL in differentiated adipocytes modulated expression of lipid metabolism genes.	knockdown
GSE102114	Differential expression of long non‑coding RNA and mRNA in children with Henoch‑Schönlein purpura nephritis	Long non‑coding RNAs (lncRNAs) serve an essential role in regulating immunological functions. However, their impact on Henoch‑Schönlein purpura nephritis (HSPN), has remained elusive. 	NA
GSE104232	NFIA is a gliogenic switch enabling rapid derivation of functional human astrocytes from pluripotent stem cells	The development of the central nervous system (CNS) depends on the orchestrated generation of neurons and glia from neural stem cells (NSCs). Although NSCs generate both cell types, they are produced sequentially as neurons are born first and glia later. In humans, this timing is extremely protracted and the underlying mechanisms remain unknown. Deriving glial cells such as astrocytes from human pluripotent stem cells requires 3-6 months of differentiation, greatly impeding their use in human disease modeling and regenerative medicine. Here, we report that expression of the transcription factor nuclear factor IA (NFIA) is sufficient to trigger glial competency in highly neurogenic NSCs and enables the derivation of human astrocytes within 10-12 days.  NFIA-induced astrocytes are functional and shown to promote synaptogenesis, protect neurons and generate calcium transients. The mechanism of NFIA-induced glial competency involves rapid but reversible chromatin remodeling, demethylation of the GFAP promoter and a striking effect on the cell cycle. NFIA titration and pharmacological studies indicate that acquisition of a glial-compatible G1 length is critical for achieving glial competency. Our results offer mechanistic insights into human glial competency and enable the routine use of astrocytes for studying human development and disease.	NA
GSE105145	Bone marrow-derived and dental pulp-derived human mesenchymal stem cell RNA-Seq	Lineage commitment and tumorigenesis specify adult stem cells from different tissues or organs. To gain insight into the mechanism of this programming, phenotypic, functional and transcriptome analyses were performed in mesenchymal stem cells derived from human dental pulp (DPSCs) and bone marrow (BMSCs). DPSCs and BMSCs had similar morphologies and flow cytometric profiles, and were capable of tri-lineage differentiation into osteoblast, adipocyte and chondocyte. However, compared with BMSCs, DPSCs increased in osteogenic potential, decreased in adipogenic potential, and formed dentin-pulp-like complexes in vivo. Genome-wide RNA-seq and differential expression analysis revealed that signalings such as, phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN)/PI3K/AKT pathway, and cancer-related pathway were different in both cells. Differential PTEN expression, higher in DPSCs than BMSCs, was responsible for the lineage commitment and tumorigenesis differences in both cells. Besides, BMSCs decreased in PTEN DNA methylation compared to DPSCs, which was mediated by increased DNA (cytosine-5) methyltransferase 3B (DNMT3B) expression. Furthermore, histone methyltransferase G9a mediated repressive epigenetic mark H3K9Me2 was selectively enriched in BMSCs. Moreover, DPSCs were more resistant to oncogenic transformation than BMSCs. To link lineage commitment with tumorigenesis, we demonstrated that DPSCs were more resistant to oncogenic transformation than BMSCs and PTEN deficiency increased the sensitivity of DPSCs for tumorigenic transformation. The results help understanding the roles of the epigenetic factors in lineage commitment and tumorigenesis and also for therapeutic uses of adult stem cells.	Cancer/pathway
GSE107594	HMGA2 Promotes Long-Term Engraftment and Myelo-Erythroid Differentiation of Human Hematopoietic Stem and Progenitor Cells	Identification of determinants of fate choices in hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) is essential in order to improve the clinical use of HSCs and to enhance our understanding of the biology of normal and malignant hematopoiesis. Here we show that high mobility group AT hook 2 (HMGA2), a non-histone chromosomal binding protein, is highly and preferentially expressed in HSCs and the most immature progenitor cell subsets of fetal, neonatal and adult human hematopoiesis. Knockdown of HMGA2 by shRNA impaired the long-term hematopoietic reconstitution of cord blood (CB) derived CB CD34+ cells. Conversely, overexpression of HMGA2 in CB CD34+ cells led to an overall enhanced reconstitution in serial xenotransplantation assays accompanied by a skewing towards the myeloerythroid lineages. RNA-Seq analysis showed that enforced HMGA2 expression in CD34+ cells induced gene expression signatures associated with differentiation towards megakaryocyte-erythroid and myeloid lineages, as well as signatures associated with growth and survival, which at the protein level were coupled with a strong activation of AKT. Taken together our findings demonstrate a key role of HMGA2 in regulation of both proliferation and differentiation of human HSPCs.	knockdown
GSE111485	Multi-omic measurements of heterogeneity in HeLa cells across laboratories	Reproducibility in research can be compromised by both biological and technical variation, but most of the focus is on removing the latter. Here we investigate the effects of biological variation in HeLa cell lines using a systems-wide approach. We determine the degree of molecular and phenotypic variability across 14 stock HeLa samples from 13 international laboratories. We cultured cells in uniform conditions and profiled genome-wide copy numbers, mRNAs, proteins and protein turnover rates in each cell line. We discovered substantial heterogeneity between HeLa variants, especially between lines of the CCL2 and Kyoto varieties, and observed progressive divergence within a specific cell line over 50 successive passages. Genomic variability has a complex, nonlinear effect on transcriptome, proteome and protein turnover profiles, and proteotype patterns explain the varying phenotypic response of different cell lines to Salmonella infection. These findings have implications for the interpretation and reproducibility of research results obtained from human cultured cells.	variant
GSE115361	Expression data from miR340 overexpressing human A549 cells	To characterize the differentially expressed genes of miR340, we compared the gene expression profiles of miR-340 overexpressing human A549 cells with that of  empty vector transfected A549 cells	NA
GSE119001	Expression alterations induced by restoration of AXIN1 expression in SNU449 hepatocellular carcinoma cells	Aberrant activation of Wnt/β-catenin signaling is observed in numerous cancers. In hepatocellular carcinoma activating mutations in CTNNB1 (20-25%) or loss of function mutations in AXIN1 (10%), AXIN2 (2%) and APC (1-2%) are observed. All these mutations lead to aberrant stabilization of β-catenin, which constitutively activates downstream Wnt/β-catenin target genes and triggers a genetic program resulting in tumor formation. However, in relation to AXIN1 mutations some reports have challenged whether these indeed result in tumor growth by enhancing β-catenin signaling (e.g. PMID: 16964294, 29525529). Several alternative pathways have also been linked to AXIN1 (ENSG00000103126), such as TGFβ, SAPK/JNK, p53, YAP/TAZ and c-myc. To identify which one of these or other unknown signaling routes are linked to AXIN1, using CRISPR-Cas9 genome editing, we have successfully repaired the homozygous p.R712* AXIN1 mutation present in the SNU449 hepatocellular carcinoma cell line. Next, using RNA sequencing the RNA expression patterns of 3 independent repaired clones were compared with 3 clones retaining the AXIN1 mutation. Surprisingly, only 5 genes were significantly altered in the repaired clones, among which AXIN2, a well-established β-catenin target gene. Thus, this analysis leads to the surprising observation that a commonly observed mutation in a hepatocellular tumor suppressor gene, is associated with minimal alterations in gene expression, at least in the SNU449 cell line.	Cancer/pathway
GSE119423	The SUMO Pathway as a Therapeutic Option in Pancreatic Cancer	Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) still carries a dismal prognosis with overall five-year survival of 8%. Conventional combination chemotherapies are a clear advance in the treatment of PDAC, however subtypes of the disease exist, which exhibit extensive resistance to such therapies. Genomic MYC amplifications represent a distinct subset of PDAC with an aggressive tumor biology. It is clear that hyperactivation of MYC generates dependencies, which can be exploited therapeutically. To find MYC-associated dependency we analyzed human PDAC expression dataset. We observed that MYC is connected to the sumoylation machinery in PDAC. Components of the SUMO pathway mark a PDAC subtype with worse prognosis and we provide evidence that PDACs with a MYChigh/SUMOhigh phenotype respond to a novel SUMO inhibitor, offering the opportunity to develop novel stratified PDAC therapies	Cancer/Pancreatic cancer/pathway
GSE120890	Differential expression of genes in AD169-infected MRC5.	We studied changes in a whole transcriptome during HCMV infection.	NA
GSE121535	RNA-seq analyisis of PUM2 knockout cells	Expression analysis in HeLa stable cell clones expressing a control shRNA (SCR) or two independent shRNAs targeting PUM2	knockout
GSE121950	RNA Sequencing Analysis of villus tissues from unexplained recurrent spontaneous abortion patients and controls with induced abortions	Recurrent spontaneous abortion (RSA), defined as the failure of two or more consecutive clinical pregnancies before 20 weeks of gestation, affects approximately 1% of couples attempting to conceive. However, the underlying mechanisms of 50% of cases are unknown. The villus plays a crucial role during pregnancy, which can provide a delicate balance between immune tolerance and defense to maintain the pregnancy.We performed RNA-seq to identify gene expression alterations in the villus of RSA patients and controls. RNA-seq was done using TruSeq Stranded mRNA Library Preparation. Briefly, intact RNA was fragmented, end repaired, adapter ligation and PCR amplified following illumina protocol. Libraries were sequencing by illumins Hiseq 2000. After quality control, sequence data were processed with STAR to generate read alignments with hg19. Raw read counts for annotated genes were obtained with featureCounts with default settings, normalized and analyzed using DEseq2.	NA
GSE122425	Effects of NSUN2 deficiency on the mRNA 5-methylcytosine modification and gene expression profile in HEK293 cells (RNA-Seq)	Aim: To study the biological function of NSUN2 in regulating gene expression and cell proliferation. Materials & methods: The NSUN2 gene was knocked down in HEK293 cells via CRISPR/Cas9 system. Gene expression were assessed using RNA-Seq. Results: A total of 790 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified.	NA
GSE124538	Induction and Therapeutic Targeting of Human NPM1c+ Myeloid Leukemia in the Presence of Autologous Immune System in Mice	Purpose: To understand the molecular mechanisms underlying NPM1c-mediated tumorigenesis by comparing the transcriptome of de novo generated bulk human leukemic cells and leukemic stem cells	NA
GSE125024	Differetially expressed genes after hTR overexpression in U2OS cells	lncRNA is reported to regulate gene transcription in variety of ways. hTR is a lncRNA with 451 nt. It is classical role is serving as template for telomere lengthening. However, it involves in some other biology processes as a lncRNA. To screen for genes regulated by hTR, we performed RNAseq with hTR expressed U2OS cells, using pBabe-U2OS as control.	NA
GSE125733	Transcriptomic analysis of frontal fibrosing alopecia	We undertook transcriptome profiling with RNA-sequencing of scalp skin from seven cases of European ancestry and seven matched controls.	NA
GSE133000	RNA sequence of mRNA in HUVEC cells after depleting EGFL6	Total RNA was isolated from each thymic sample using the standard TRIzol protocol (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA). RNA quality was examined by gel electrophoresis and with a Nanodrop spectrophotometer (Thermo, Waltham, MA, USA). For RNA sequencing, RNA samples from 9 biological replicates were separated into three independent pools, each comprised of three distinct samples at equal amounts. Strand-specific libraries were constructed using the TruSeq RNA sample preparation kit (Illumina, San Diego, CA, USA), and sequencing was carried out using the Illumina HiSeq X Ten instrument by the commercial service of Genergy Biotechnology Co. Ltd. (Shanghai, China). The raw data was delieved into NCBI’s Gene Expression Omnibius, and was handled by Perl and data quality was checked by FastQC v0.11.2. Clean reads were aligned to the chicken genome (release: Gallus gallus 4.0) from NCBI using Bowtie, with one mismatch allowed. As shown by previous study[2], the expression of the transcript was calculated by FPKM using Perl. Differentially expression transcripts (DETs) were determined using the MA-plot-based method with Random Sampling (MARS) model in the DEGseq package between different time points. The thresholds for determining DETs are P < 0.05 and absolute fold change ≥ 2. Then DETs were chosen for function and signaling pathway enrichment analysis using GO and KEGG database.	pathway
GSE118933	Immune Checkpoint Regulation of Pulmonary Fibrosis [bulk RNA-seq]	Fibroblasts from idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) patients acquire an invasive phenotype that is essential for progressive fibrosis. The immune checkpoint ligand CD274 (PD-L1) is up-regulated on invasive lung fibroblasts, regulated by P53 and FAK signaling, and drives lung fibrosis in a humanized IPF model in mice. Targeting CD274high fibroblasts blunted invasion in vitro and attenuated fibrosis in vivo, suggesting that CD274 may be a novel therapeutic target in IPF.	Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis
GSE128313	Highly-motile versus unsorted MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cells	The challenge of predicting which patients with breast cancer will develop metastases leads to the overtreatment of patients with benign disease and to the inadequate treatment of the aggressive cancers. Here, we report the development and testing of a microfluidic assay that quantifies the abundance and proliferation of migratory cells in breast-cancer specimens, for the assessment of their metastatic propensity and for the rapid screening of potential antimetastatic therapeutics. On the basis of the key roles of cell motility and proliferation in cancer metastasis, the device accurately predicts the metastatic potential of breast-cancer cell lines and of patient-derived xenografts. Compared to unsorted cancer cells, highly motile cells isolated by the device exhibited similar tumourigenic potential but markedly increased metastatic propensity in vivo. RNA sequencing of the highly motile cells revealed an enrichment of motility-related and survival-related genes. The approach might be developed into a companion assay for the prediction of metastasis in patients and for the selection of effective therapeutic regimens.	Breast cancer/Cancer
GSE128526	Aberrant expression of select piRNA-pathway genes does not reactivate piRNA silencing in cancer cells	Analysis of PIWIL1 function in COLO205 [ATCC® CCL-222] colon adenocarcinoma cancer cell culture model. 	Cancer/pathway
GSE121092	Gene expression analysis in U251 and U87 cells transduced with NANEP5 vector.	NANEP5 is a heterologus repressor of NANOG, which consist of NANOG homeodomain and HES1 repressor domain. In this study we explore transcriptomes of glioblastoma cells expressing NANEP5 in order to reveal putative mediators of pro-tumorigenic NANOG function.	NA
GSE126475	Exploring ILF2 regulatory genes by next-generation sequencing	We knocked down the expression of ILF2 in the A549 cell line and sequenced the RNA genes with the untreated A549 cells to find the regulatory gene of ILF2.	NA
GSE129142	Identification of elevated A-to-I editing sites due to expression of an active ADAR3 mutant in human glioblastoma cells	We have analyzed RNA-seq data to identify A-to-I editing sites in two groups of samples: one group isolated from human U87 cell line expressing an active ADAR3 mutant while the other isolated from U87 cell line expressing the inactive counterpart of the ADAR3 mutant. We compared these two groups of samples and identified sites whose editing levels are higher in the first group than in the second group.	NA
GSE129241	Directly Reprogrammed Human Neurons Identify a Pathogenic Mechanism of Valproic Acid at Early Developmental Stages	Human pluripotent stem cells can be rapidly converted into functional neurons by ectopic expression of proneural transcription factors. Here we show that directly reprogrammed neurons, despite their rapid maturation kinetics, can model teratogenic mechanisms that specifically affect early neurodevelopment. We delineated distinct phases of in vitro maturation during reprogramming of human neurons and assessed the cellular phenotypes of valproic acid (VPA), a teratogenic drug. VPA exposure caused chronic impairment of dendritic morphology and functional properties of developing neurons, but not those of mature neurons. These pathogenic effects were associated with VPA-mediated inhibition of the histone deacetylase (HDAC) and glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3) pathways, which caused transcriptional downregulation of many genes, including MARCKSL1, an actin-stabilizing protein essential for dendritic morphogenesis and synapse maturation during early neurodevelopment. Our findings identify a developmentally restricted pathogenic mechanism of VPA and establish the use of reprogrammed neurons as an effective platform for modeling teratogenic pathways.	pathway
GSE129619	Disease modelling of core pre-mRNA splicing factor haploinsufficiency	We generated a human EFTUD2 knockdown cell line using a CRISPR cas9 nickase strategy to investigate the effects of decreased expression of core spliceosome components on cell characteristics and global transcriptome expression/splicing patterns	knockdown
GSE130271	Profiling of protrusion-enriched RNAs from human breast cancer cell line MDA-MB-231	The goals of this study are to compare the gene expression of cell protrusions and corresponding cell bodies by isolating cell protrusions from cultured MDA-MB-231 cells in a novel microfluidic device.	Breast cancer/Cancer
GSE107580	Activation of neuronal genes via LINE-1 elements upon global DNA demethylation in human neural progenitors	DNA methylation is thought to contribute to the maintenance of genomic integrity in somatic cells, in part through the silencing of transposable elements (TEs). In this study, we used CRISPR/Cas9 technology to delete DNMT1, the key maintenance DNA methyltransferase in human neural progenitor cells (hNPCs). Surprisingly, and in contrast to previous findings in mouse somatic cells, inactivation of DNMT1 in hNPCs resulted in viable proliferating cells despite the global loss of DNA CpG-methylation. DNA demethylation led to specific transcriptional activation and chromatin remodeling of evolutionarily young, hominoid-specific LINE-1 elements (L1s), while older L1s and other classes of TEs remained silent. The activated L1s acted as alternative promoters for many protein-coding genes involved in neuronal functions, revealing a hominoidspecific L1-based transcriptional network controlled by DNA methylation that influences neuronal protein-coding genes. Our results give a novel mechanistic insight into the role of DNA methylation in silencing TEs in somatic human cells, as well as further implicating L1s in human brain development and disease.	NA
GSE112448	 Polarized B -cell functions 	In this study, we designed an in vitro approach to help us understand how extracellular components participate in human B cell functional plasticity and how this network might be involved in auto-immune diseases. Two activated T cell subsets were used to expose a common pool of B cells to distinct, controlled microenvironments. We showed that the same B cell population could experience two possible opposite evolutions, to either helper or suppressor functions, in a flexible manner. These cells were thus referred to as effector B cells (Eff B) or suppressor B cells (Supp B). We thus analyzed their different transcriptional programs by RNA sequencing.	NA
GSE115659	Next generation sequencing on knockdown of AC093323.3 in lung cancer cells	In this study we predict functionally important long intergenic non-coding RNAs (lincRNAs) with a role in core essential processes in human. One of the candidate lincRNA, AC093323.3, was experimentally verified to affect cell viability. We performed RNASeq on knockdown of AC093323.3 to further investigate the functional role of this lincRNA.	Cancer/Lung cancer/knockdown
GSE115914	Effect of hyper-and hypoactivation of Notch signaling in IL-4-stimulate THP-1	MSCV-GFP-IRES (IRES), MSCV-GFP-Myc-NIC1 (NIC1) and MSCV-GFP-DNMAML (DNMAML) were retrovirally transduced in to THP-1 cell (pCL-Ampho was used as packaging plasmid). GFP positive cells were sorted for selective desired cell. Then IRES, NIC1 and DNMAML overexpressing THP-1 were pretreated with PMA (5ng/ml) for 48 h before stimulation with IL-4 (20 ng/ml) for 3 h.	NA
GSE123472	EGR1-controlled transcriptome of T HESCs	Sequencing of mRNA isolated from a human endometrial stromal cell line (T HESCs) following control or EGR1 siRNA-mediated knockdown.	siRNA/knockdown
GSE125128	SREBP1 drives Keratin 80-dependent cytoskeletal changes and invasive behavior in endocrine resistant ERα breast cancer	Approximately 30% of women diagnosed with ERα breast cancer relapse with metastatic disease following adjuvant treatment with endocrine therapies. The connection between acquisition of drug resistance and invasive potential is poorly understood. In this study, we demonstrate that the type II keratin topological associating domain (TAD) undergoes epigenetic reprogramming in cells that develop resistance to aromatase inhibitors (AI), leading to keratin 80 (KRT80) upregulation. In agreement, an increased number of KRT80-positive cells are observed at relapse in vivo while KRT80 expression associates with poor outcome using several clinical endpoints. KRT80 expression is driven by de novo enhancer activation by sterol regulatory element-binding protein 1 (SREBP1). KRT80 upregulation directly promotes cytoskeletal rearrangements at the leading edge, increased focal adhesion maturation and cellular stiffening, which collectively promote cancer cell invasion. Shear-wave elasticity imaging of tumors from prospectively recruited patients shows that KRT80 levels correlate with stiffer tumors in vivo. Collectively, our data uncover an unpredicted and potentially targetable direct link between epigenetic and cytoskeletal reprogramming promoting cell invasion in response to chronic AI treatment.	Breast cancer/Cancer
GSE127081	Blocking expression of inhibitory receptor NKG2A overcomes tumor resistance to NK cells	A key mechanism of tumor resistance to immune cells is mediated by expression of peptide-loaded HLA-E in tumor cells, which suppresses natural killer (NK) cell activity via ligation of the NK inhibitory receptor CD94/NKG2A. To bypass HLA-E inhibition, we developed a way to generate highly functional NK cells lacking NKG2A. Constructs containing a single-chain variable fragment derived from an anti-NKG2A antibody were linked to endoplasmic reticulum-retention domains. After retroviral transduction in human peripheral blood NK cells, these NKG2A Protein Expression Blockers (PEBLs) abrogated NKG2A expression. The resulting NKG2Anull NK cells had higher cytotoxicity against HLA-E-expressing tumor cells.	NA
GSE129307	Studying the selectivity of a targeted small molecule degrading a hypoxia-associated non-coding RNA	Small molecule targeted recruitment of nucleases to RNA is a powerful method to affect RNA biology.  Inforna, a sequence-based design approach to target RNA, enables the design of small molecules that bind and cleave RNA in a selective and substoichiometric manner.  Herein, we investigate the ability of RNA targeted degradation to improve the selectivity of small molecules targeting RNA.  The microRNA-210 hairpin precursor (pre-miR-210) is overexpressed in hypoxic cancers.  Previously, a small molecule (Targapremir-210, TGP-210) targeted this RNA in cells, but with only a 5-fold window for DNA binding.  Appendage of a nuclease recruitment module onto TGP-210 locally recruited ribonuclease L onto pre-miR-210, triggering its degradation.  The chimera has enhanced selectivity compared to TGP-210 with nanomolar binding to the pre-miR-210, but no DNA binding, and is broadly selective for affecting RNA function in cells.  Importantly, it cleaved pre-miR-210 substoichiometrically and induced apoptosis in breast cancer cells.	Breast cancer/Cancer
GSE132091	Toxoplasma gondii infection of human retinal pigment epithelial cells	We performed RNA-Sequencing (RNA-Seq) of primary human retinal pigment epithelial cells and the ARPE-19 cell line 24 hours following infection with GT-1 strain T. gondii tachyzoites. Gene ontology and pathway enrichment analyses of differentially expressed total RNA identified a strong immunologic transcriptomic signature. There were limited changes in the small RNA transcriptome. We used RT-qPCR for 26 immune response-related protein-coding and long non-coding transcripts in different primary epithelial cell isolates to confirm immunological activity of infected cells.	pathway
GSE99724	Gene expression activation in CLL mediated by MSCs contact	Survival of primary CLL cells is mediated by mesenchimal stromal cells in vitro. The goal of this study is to compare the gene expression profile of primary CLL cells in monoculture to that one following cell-cell contact with MSCs	NA
GSE100322	Whole transcriptome sequencing of the human thyroid primary cells with knock-down of the NRG1 gene	The protein encoded by the NRG1 gene is a membrane glycoprotein that mediates cell-cell signaling and plays a critical role in the growth and development of multiple organ systems. Here we report gene expression profiles of human thyroid primary cells on Day 5 treated with NRG1 siRNA. The primary cells were generated from fresh nontumorous thyroid tissues obtained from thyroid cancer patients. A number of new dysregulated genes of NRG1 were discovered. This study reveals a novel role of NRG1 in downstream gene regulation and provides a new explanation of NRG1’s function in thyroid cancer.	knock-down
GSE124622	Next Generation Sequencing of control (Untreated), PAN injured and Adriamycin injured human podocytes	Purpose: Next-generation sequencing (NGS) was used to identify cellular pathways and genes through systems-based analysis. The goals of this study are to identify NGS-derived transcriptome profiling (RNA-seq) in control (untreated) and Injured (PAN and Adriamycin) podocyte. These high throughput data were further validated through qRT–PCR methods to confirm the cellular pathways and genes affected due to the podocyte injury.  Methods: Human podocytes were differentiated for 14 days by thermoswitching from 33⁰C to 37⁰C and removal of growth factors, insulin-transferrin-selenium from the medium.  These podocytes were incubated 4hour in serum free RPMI medium and injury was induced by using PAN (100μg/ml) and Adriamycin (0.25μg/ml) treatment for 48 hours.Further, podocytes were processed for RNA isolation and submitted to Medical University of South Carolina Sequencing Core facility for RNA-Seq. All the experiments were performed in triplicates.  Conclusions: Our study is first to describe the detailed analysis of PAN and Adriamycin induced podocyte transcriptomes using the RNA-seq technology. A comparative analysis of the differential expression profile was obtained between control vs PAN injured podocytes, and control vs Adriamycin injured podocytes. Complex genetic network and genes effected due to the injury will provide a platform to define biological pathways participate during podocytes injury process.	pathway
GSE128967	The Wnt/β-catenin and RAS-ERK Pathways were Activated  in Tissues of Chemotherapy-Resistant Gastric Cancer PDX Tumor	Chemotherapy resistance and disease recurrence remains major causes of gastric cancer patient mortality. We describe possible relationship between Wnt/b-catenin and RAS/ERK pathways in GC patients and acquired-resistant GC PDX tumors against FOLFOX, 5-fluorouracil-based chemotherapy. RNA sequencing analysis also demonstrates that Wnt/b-catenin pathway is an actionable target pathway for overcoming the chemotherapy resistance. These provide that an approach targeting both Wnt/b-catenin and RAS/ERK pathways could be novel therapeutic strategy in GC resistant to standard chemotherapy.	Cancer/pathway
GSE131066	Transcriptomic profiling of O-GlcNAcylated mRNA-protein complexes by using OG-CLAP in HeLa cells.	We report the development of OG-CLAP strategy and the identification of 9840 high-confidence O-GlcNAcylated binding sites by using OG-CLAP. The sequencing depth of each replicate is about 1.3 G.	NA
GSE132082	RNA-seq of tumor cells following angiopellosis extravasation	Tumor cells were observed to undergo extravasation through intrivital imaging and immediately following the extravasation they were isolated and compared to control cells using RNA-seq.	NA
GSE113942	Genome-wide profiling of cervical RNA-binding proteins identified HPV regulation of RNASEH2A expression by viral E7 and E2F1	RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) have been shown to control mRNA processing, stability, transport, editing and translation. Application of large-scale quantitative technologies has facilitated genome-wide identification of RBPs and linked their defects to human diseases and carcinogenesis. We have recently conducted transcriptome analysis comparing normal cervical tissues with HPV-positive cervical cancer tissues by using two different RNA-seq platforms. As the results, 614 differentially expressed protein-coding transcripts were identified, which are enriched in cancer related pathways and consist of 95 known RBPs. TaqMan RT-qPCR was used to verify altered expression of 26 genes with a cohort of 72 cervical samples, including 24 normal cervical, 25 CIN 2-3, and 23 cervical cancer tissues. LY6K, FAM83A, CELSR3, ASF1B, IQGAP3, SEMA3F, CLDN10, MSX1, CXCL5, ASRGL1, ELAVL2, GRB7, KHSRP, NOVA1, PTBP1 and RNASEH2A were identified being novel candidates in association with cervical lesion progression and carcinogenesis. We further demonstrated that HPV16 or HPV18 infection leads to altered expression of 8 RBP genes (CDKN2A, ELAVL2, GRB7, HSPB1, KHSRP, NOVA1, PTBP1, and RNASEH2A) in human vaginal and foreskin keratinocytes.  While both viral E6 and E7 decrease NOVA1 expression, viral E7 was found to increase the expression of both RNASEH2A and PCNA in an E2F1 dependent manner, two key factors closely associated with the progression of cervical neoplasia. By illustration of the first comprehensive cervical genome expression atlas, we have identified the altered expression of many novel genes due to HPV infection, which could be biomarkers for better diagnosis and treatment of cervical cancer.	Cancer/pathway
GSE127457	IL-1β induces the rapid secretion of the antimicrobial protein IL-26 from Th17 cells	We investigated how IL-1β and anti-CD3/CD28 stimulation affected gene expression in IL-1RI+ and IL-1RI- Th17 cells by RNA sequencing.	NA
GSE108706	Transcriptome analysis in Neobractatin treated cells	The goal of this study is to use RNA seq and rMATS analysis to identify the anticancer mechanism of novel compounds	Cancer
GSE117415	RNA-seq in SUNE-1 cells after downregulation of DANCR expression	To explore whether DANCR plays a role in  nasopharyngeal carcinoma tumorigenesis, a RNA-seq analysis was performed to compare the gene expression profiles of DANCR siRNA and control groups.	siRNA
GSE121380	Mucosal Profiling of Pediatric-Onset Colitis and IBD Reveals Common Pathogenics and Therapeutic Pathways	Pediatric-onset colitis and inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) have significant effects on the growth of infants and children, but the etiopathogenesis underlying disease subtypes remains incompletely understood. Here, we report single-cell clustering, immune phenotyping, and risk gene analysis for children with undifferentiated colitis, Crohn’s disease, and ulcerative colitis. We demonstrate disease-specific characteristics, as well as common pathogenesis marked by impaired cyclic AMP (cAMP)-response signaling. Specifically, infiltration of PDE4B- and TNF-expressing macrophages, decreased abundance of CD39-expressing intraepithelial T cells, and platelet aggregation and release of 5-hydroxytryptamine at the colonic mucosae were common in colitis and IBD patients. Targeting these pathways by using the phosphodiesterase inhibitor dipyridamole restored immune homeostasis and improved colitis symptoms in a pilot study. In summary, comprehensive analysis of the colonic mucosae has uncovered common pathogenesis and therapeutic targets for children with colitis and IBD.	pathway
GSE121382	Transcriptome Analysis of CircMRPS35 mediated mRNA expression profiles	Purpose: To explore the mechanism of circMRPS35-mediated suppression of proliferation and invasion in gastric cancer. Methods: MGC-803 cells were transfected with control and SiRNA-circMRPS35, in triplicate. Total RNA was extracted using Trizol reagent.	Cancer/siRNA
GSE121596	Circular RNA expression signature of low-glucose-treated MIA PaCa-2 cells	Glucose metabolism makes contributions to the development of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC). Meanwhile, circular RNAs, a subset of noncoding RNAs, plays an important role in glucose metabolism and cancer progression. Analysis of low-glucose-treated and normal-glucose-treated MIA PaCa-2 cells from 6 samples (3 samples each group) was conducted. Results indicate insight into molecular signature of the pathogenesis of PDAC in abberant glucose metabolism.	Cancer
GSE125648	RNA-sequencing analysis for gene expression profiles affected by CASC9 knockdown	Genome-wide association studies of tumor samples have identified a large number of lncRNAs associated with various types of cancer including colorectal cancer. To elucidate the mechanism by which CASC9 regulates colorectal cancer cell growth, RNA-sequencing was performed to analyze the gene expression profile affected by CASC9 knockdown. A total of 249 significantly upregulated genes and 491 significantly downregulated genes (absolute fold change ≥ 2, P < 0.05) were found in CASC9 knockdown HCT-116 cells.	knockdown
GSE131897	Transcriptional profiling of PBMC from patients with aGvHD and patients without aGvHD after alloHSCT	The goal of this study are to identify critical biomarkers distinguishing alloHSCT recipients with aGvHD from alloHSCT recipients without aGvHD in two separate cohorts. Total RNA was isolated from the peripheral blood mononucleated cells and then quantified on a Bioanalyzer. Whole transcriptome sequencing libraries (3 pairs of aGvHD and controls, 6 libraries in total) were prepared following the manufacturer’s instructions for the Whole Transcriptome Sample Prep Kit (Illumina) by GENEWIZ Company. 1148 presented significant alterations in cases with aGvHD (t test, FDR corrected P < 0.05, |fold change|>1.5). Transcriptomic pathway analysis showed that the GPL metabolism pathway was one of the most significant pathways with Bonferroni correction P value (Q value) less than 0.001, indicating that it was a critical pathway related to the development of aGvHD.	pathway
GSE136569	circNFIB suppresses lymphatic metastasis of pancreatic cancer	Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is one of the most lethal malignany and currently the fourth leading cause of cancer related death worldwide. Circular RNAs (circRNAs) are a kind of novel noncoding RNA with a covalently circular structure arise from the non-canonical splicing of precursor-mRNA(pre-mRNA). To identify circRNAs involved in the progression of PDAC, next-generation sequencing (NGS) was performed in five paired PDAC and normal adjacent tissues. Our results suggest that the differential expressed circRNAs in PDAC tissues and normal adjacent tissues associated with the metastasis of PDAC.	Cancer/Pancreatic cancer
GSE136668	Transcriptomic analysis of differential expressed genes of human tonsillar epithelial cells UT-SCC-60B in response to EV71 infection	Purpose: The goals of this study are to understand the transcriptional changes of human tonsillar epithelial cells UT-SCC-60B in response to EV71 infection and determine the differential expressed genes Methods: Transcriptional profiles of human tonsillar epithelial cells UT-SCC-60B and human tonsillar epithelial cells infected with EV71 were generated by next generation sequencing, in triplicate, using Illumina X-ten/NovaSeq. The sequence reads that passed quality filters were analyzed abundance of mRNA using StringTie, the FPKM values of genes and transcripts were calculated by Ballgown of R software, alternative splicing events were determined by rMATS Results: Using an optimized data analysis workflow, we mapped more than 36 million sequence reads per sample. Total 11137 gene counts and 26860 transcript counts were identified in human tonsillar epithelial cells, 11347 gene counts and 27994 transcript counts were identified in EV71-infected human tonsillar epithelial cells. Total 96 genes and 499 transcripts were down-regulated, 105 genes and 550 transcripts were up-regulated according the criteria that fold changes are more than 1.5, p value less is than 0.05 and mean of FPKM value is more than 0.5 to defined as the differential expressed genes or differential expressed transcripts. Total 11563 novel genes and 14927 novel transcripts were identified and 3266 novel transcripts had the potential coding probabilities. Finally, total 5742 genes occurred alternative splicing events. Conclusions: Our study represents the first detailed analysis of the transcriptional changes of human tonsillar epithelial cells UT-SCC-60B in response to EV71 infection, this results will provide novel insight into the interaction between human tonsillar epithelial cells and EV71	NA
GSE140430	Stem and effector CD8 T-cells from human cancers	Tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) are associated with a survival benefit in several tumor types and response to immunotherapy. However, the reason some tumors have high CD8 T cell infiltration while others do not remains an unanswered question. In this study, we investigated the requirements for maintaining a CD8 T cell response against human cancer. We find that CD8 T cells within tumors consist of distinct populations of terminally differentiated and stem-like cells. Upon proliferation, stem-like CD8 T cells give rise to more terminally differentiated, effector molecule expressing daughter cells. For many T-cells to infiltrate the tumor, it is critical that this effector differentiation process occur. In this study, we collected these different cell populations from human tumors and performed RNA sequencing and DNA methylation analysis.	Cancer
GSE129950	A novel lncRNA lncRNA-AK096729 promotes colorectal carcinogenesis and glucose metabolism by stabilizing and specifying the transcription modification pattern of c-Myc	To elucidate whether  lncRNA-AK096729 plays a role in  colorectal cancer tumorigenesis, a RNA-seq analysis was performed to compare the gene expression profiles of  lncRNA-AF339830 siRNA and control siRNA transfectants.	Cancer/Colorectal cancer/siRNA
GSE132154	Dual modulation of neuron specific microRNAs and the REST complex promotes functional maturation of induced human adult neurons	Direct neural reprogramming can be achieved using different approaches, including by expressing neuronal transcription factors or microRNAs, and by knocking down neuronal repressive elements. However, there still exists a high variability in terms of the quality and maturity of the induced neurons (iNs) obtained, depending on the reprogramming strategy employed. Here, we evaluate different long-term culture conditions and study the effect of expressing the neuronal-specific microRNAs miR124 and miR9/9* while reprogramming with Ascl1, Brn2 and knockdown of the neuronal repressor REST. We show that addition of microRNA supports neuronal maturation both in terms of gene and protein expression, as well as promotes the development of active ion channels and the ability of iNs to generate current induced and spontaneous action potentials.	knockdown
GSE136262	A combined epigenome- and transcriptome-wide association study of the oral masticatory mucosa assigns CYP1B1 a central role for epithelial health in smokers	Healthy ex vivo biopsies from masticatory mucosa from 17 current and 21 never smokers were analysed using whole transcriptome RNA sequencing (16 mio reads/sample), showing significantly increased expression of CYP1B1 in smokers compared to non-smokers (p = 2.2 × 10−14), together with 13 significantly upregulated transcripts. Six transcripts were significantly downregulated.	NA
GSE139822	RNA-seq data of small cell carcinoma of the bladder (SCCB) /urothelial carcinoma (Non-SCCB) clinical samples, and bladder-PARCB cell lines	SCCB or Non-SCCB samples are collected from Archived FFPE	NA
GSE140227	RNA sequencing of lesional and nonlesional skin from patients with atopic dermatitis	Purpose: To determine the transcriptional differences between lesional skin and nonlesional skin from patients with atopic dermatitis Methods: Skin biopsies of lesional and non-lesional sites on atopic dermatitis patients were obtained and stored in RNA Later. Ribosomal RNA was removed and cDNA was generated with the SMARTer kit (CloneTech) with 10 ng of total RNA per sample. Samples were sequenced to an average depth of 34 million 1x50 reads on a HiSeq3000 (Illumina). Reads were aligned to Ensembl release 76 using STAR, gene counts were determined with Subread:featureCount, and sequence performance was assessed with RSeQC.	NA
GSE140380	Transcriptional differences between skin from patients with atopic dermatitis and control skin obtained from the healthy margins of Mohs surgery patients	Purpose: To determine the transcriptional differences between skin from patients with atopic dermatitis and control skin obtained from the healthy margins of Mohs surgery patients Methods: 4 mm skin biopsies of skin from atopic dermatitis patients or deidentified healthy margin surgical tissue were obtained and stored in RNA Later (-80C). Whole tissue RNA was isolated from tissue processed with a bead homogenizer using the QIAGEN RNeasy kit. Following DNase treatment (TurboDNase, Invitrogen), ribosomal RNA was removed (Ribo-zero kit, Illumina). mRNA was then fragmented in buffer containing 40 mM Tris acetate (pH 8.2), 100 mM potassium acetate, and 30 mM magnesium acetate and heated to 94C for 150 s. mRNA was reverse transcribed to yield cDNA using SuperScript III RT enzyme (Invitrogen, per manufacturer’s instructions) and random hexamers. A second strand reaction was performed to yield dscDNA. cDNA was blunt ended, had an A base added to the 30 ends, and then had Illumina sequencing adapters ligated to the ends. Ligated fragments were then amplified for 12 cycles using primers incorporating unique index tags. Fragments were sequenced on an Illumina HiSeq-3000 using single reads extending 50 bases. Samples were sequenced to an average depth of 32 million 1x50 reads on a HiSeq3000 (Illumina). Reads were aligned to Homo_sapiens reference build Ensembl_R76 using STAR, gene counts were determined with Subread:featureCount, transcript counts were produced by Sailfish, and sequence performance was assessed with RSeQC v2.3.	NA
GSE88731	Cellular response to hepatitis E virus (HEV) infection	What happens in cells infected with HEV is largely unknown. We used a recently established genotype 3 HEV cell culture system and profiled the host responses by RNA-seq.	NA
GSE110580	High-throughput RNA sequencing on circular RNA profiles of human pancreatic cancer cell lines and gemcitabine resistant pancreatic cancer cell lines.	Gemcitabine resistance is currently the main problem of chemotherapy for advanced pancreatic cancer patients. The resistance is thought to be caused by altered drug metabolism or reduced apoptosis of cancer cells. However, the underlying mechanism of Gemcitabine resistance in pancreatic cancer remains unclear. In this study, we established Gemcitabine resistant PANC-1 (PANC-1-GR) cell lines and compared the circular RNAs (circRNAs) profiles between PANC-1 cells and PANC-1-GR cells by RNA sequencing.	Cancer/Pancreatic cancer
GSE113005	Transcriptomics-based drug repurposing approach identifies novel drugs against sorafenib-resistant hepatocellular carcinoma	Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is frequently diagnosed in patients with late-stage disease who are ineligible for curative surgical therapies. Furthermore, the majority of patients become resistant to sorafenib. Recently, computational methods for drug repurposing have shown great promise to accelerate the discovery of new uses for existing drugs. In order to identify novel drugs for use against sorafenib resistant (SR)-HCC, we employed a transcriptomics-based drug repurposing method termed connectivity mapping. We conducted a comprehensive analysis of available in vitro and in vivo gene signatures of (SR)-HCC, and generated our own in vitro model using the Huh7 HCC cell line. We compared coverage of SR-HCC gene signatures across seven patient-derived HCC gene expression datasets, and observed that patients harboring the Huh7 SR-HCC gene signature had significantly reduced survival. Utilizing the Huh7 SR-HCC gene signature, we applied connectivity mapping to drug-induced gene expression profiles (n= 3,740 drugs) in the HepG2 HCC cell line from the LINCS database in order to find drugs that could oppose sorafenib resistance. We validated the use of two non-receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors, dasatinib and fostamatinib, to reduce viability of sorafenib-resistant HCC cells and confirmed up-regulated activity of Src family kinases, the targets of dasatinib, in our SR-HCC models. We prospectively validated predicted gene expression changes in fostamatinib treated Huh7-SR via RNA-seq analysis.	NA
GSE114311	Regulation of pre-mRNA splicing by m6A through the low-complexity protein hnRNPG and co-transcriptional pausing	Co-transcriptional processing of nascent transcripts is coupled with transcription through the carboxy-terminal domain (CTD) of RNA polymerase II (RNAPII). The mRNA modification N6-methyladenosine (m6A) occurs co-transcriptionally and impacts pre-mRNA processing. How alternative splicing of pre-mRNA is co-transcriptionally regulated in an m6A-dependent manner is not well understood. Furthermore, splicing regulation through RNAPII pausing has been frequently suggested but the underlying control mechanism remains unclear. Here, we show that the m6A reader protein hnRNPG directly binds to the phosphorylated CTD of RNAPII using Arg-Gly-Gly (RGG) motifs in its low-complexity region. This RGG-phospho-CTD interaction and nascent RNA binding by hnRNPG enables its co-transcriptional association with RNAPII, resulting in transcriptome-wide regulation of alternative splicing and transcript abundance. m6A sites near exon splice sites in nascent mRNA further modulate hnRNPG binding and exon splicing. Exon inclusion is associated with RNAPII pausing downstream of the m6A site. Our results reveal an integrated nuclear mechanism of m6A-mediated gene regulation, in which an m6A reader protein regulates gene expression by using RGG motifs to co-transcriptionally interact with both RNAPII and m6A-modified nascent pre-mRNA, while the interplay between hnRNPG binding and RNAPII pausing modulates alternative splicing regulation.	NA
GSE120174	RNA sequencing of human mammary epithelial cells	Study of RNA expression changes in human mammary epithelial cells under TGFbeta1 induced epithelial mesenchymal transition	NA
GSE127478	Mitochondrial 3243A > G mutation confers pro-atherogenic and pro-inflammatory properties in MELAS iPS derived endothelial cells	We obtained three independent sets of endothelial cells differentiated from iPSCs derived from a Mitochondrial encephalomyopathy, lactic acidosis, and stroke-like episodes (MELAS) patient as well as iPSCs that has been corrected for the mitochondrial mutation.	NA
GSE128101	Subcellular pathways shared by afflicted patients and mutant mice identify a new drug treatment for aortic aneurysm in Marfan syndrome	We analyzed differentially expressed genes in smooth muscle cells derived from the thoracic aorta of Marfan Syndrome (MFS) patients and control subjects to identify cell biological mechanisms contributing to thoracic aoritc aneurysm (TAA) development and rupture. These mechanisms were used to identify a potential drug treatment to mitigate TAA progression. We analyzed differentially expressed genes in whole aorta of P16 MFS mice vs WT mice to identify cell biological mechanisms contributing to thoracic aoritc aneurysm (TAA) development and rupture. These mechanisms were used to identify baclofen as a potential drug treatment to mitigate TAA progression. The effect of baclofen on gene expression in WT and MFS was documented in P60 mice that received treatment since P16.	pathway
GSE131011	Mesenchymal stem/stromal cell engulfment reveals metastatic advantage in breast cancer	We isolated the engulfing MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cells and would like to see the differences as compared to WT	Breast cancer/Cancer
GSE133523	Modeling Human Cancer-induced Cachexia (Human)	Cachexia is a wasting syndrome characterized by pronounced skeletal muscle loss.  In cancer, cachexia associates with increased morbidity and mortality and decreased treatment tolerance. Although advances have been made in understanding the mechanisms of cachexia, translating these advances to the clinic has been challenging. One reason for this shortcoming may be the current animal models that fail to fully recapitulate the etiology of human cancer-induced tissue wasting. Because pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDA) presents with a high incidence of cachexia, we engineered a mouse model of PDA, that we named KPP. KPP mice, similar to PDA patients, progressively lose skeletal and adipose mass as a consequence of their tumors. In addition, KPP muscles exhibit a similar gene ontology to cachectic patients. We envision the KPP model will be a useful resource for advancing our mechanistic understanding and ability to treat cancer cachexia.	Cancer
GSE134401	Effect on small molecule RBPJ inhibitor (RIN1) on gene expression in Jurkat cells compared to gamma secretase inhibition and siRNA knockdown of RBPJ	We discovered a new class of small molecule inhibitor that disrupts the interaction between NOTCH and RBPJ, which is the main transcriptional effector of NOTCH signaling. RBPJ Inhibitor-1 (RIN1) also blocked the functional interaction of RBPJ with SHARP, a scaffold protein that forms a transcriptional repressor complex with RBPJ in the absence of NOTCH signaling. RIN1 induced changes in gene expression  resembled siRNA silencing of RBPJ rather than inhibition at the level of NOTCH itself. RIN1 inhibits RBPJ in its repressing and activating contexts.	siRNA/knockdown
GSE90469	Ribosome profiling of G2019S LRRK2 human dopamine neurons	G2019S mutaion of LRRK2 is known to increase mRNA translation. We perform ribosome profiling to study defective translation using human dopamine neuron models. Patient-derived human dopamine neurons with G2019S LRRK2 mutation were generated and used. Also a mutation-corrected isogenic pair line was used.	NA
GSE137755	FBP2 inhibits sarcoma progression by restraining mitochondrial biogenesis	We show that expression of the gluconeogenic isozyme fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase 2 (FBP2) is silenced in a broad spectrum of soft tissue sarcoma (STS) subtypes, revealing an apparent common metabolic feature shared by diverse STS. Enforced FBP2 expression inhibits STS cell and tumor growth through two distinct mechanisms. First, cytosolic FBP2 antagonizes elevated glycolysis associated with the “Warburg effect”, thereby inhibiting sarcoma cell proliferation. Second, nuclear-localized FBP2 restrains mitochondrial biogenesis and respiration in a catalytic activity-independent manner by inhibiting the expression of nuclear respiratory factor (NRF1) and mitochondrial transcription factor A (TFAM).  Specifically, nuclear FBP2 colocalizes with the c-Myc transcription factor at the TFAM locus and represses c-Myc-dependent TFAM expression. This unique dual function of FBP2 provides a rationale for its selective suppression in STS, identifying a potential metabolic vulnerability and possible therapeutic target. This study aims to globally compare the transcriptomes from control or FBP2-expressing LPS246 cells. Total RNA was isolated from 5 sets of control cells and 5 sets of FBP2-expressing cells using RNeasy Mini Kit (Qiagen). Low-throughput library prep using Illumina truSeq stranded mRNA kit. The sequencing were performed on Illumina Platform 100SR, with 312 million raw reads/sample.	NA
GSE139249	Discovery of Specialized NK Cell Populations Infiltrating Human Melanoma Metastases	NK cells contribute to protective anti-tumor immunity, but little is known about the functional states of NK cells in human solid tumors.  To address this issue, we performed single-cell RNA-seq analysis of NK cells isolated from human melanoma metastases, including lesions from patients who had progressed following checkpoint blockade.  This analysis identified major differences in the transcriptional programs of tumor-infiltrating compared to circulating NK cells.  Tumor-infiltrating NK cells represented seven clusters with distinct gene expression programs indicative of significant functional specialization, including cytotoxicity and chemokine synthesis programs.  In particular, NK cells from three clusters expressed high levels of XCL1 and XCL2, which encode two chemokines known to recruit XCR1+ cross-presenting dendritic cells into tumors.  In contrast, NK cells from two other clusters showed a higher level of expression of cytotoxicity genes.  These data reveal key features of NK cells in human tumors and identify NK cell populations with specialized gene expression programs.	Melanoma
GSE140150	A rare subpopulation of melanoma cells with low expression of metastasis suppressor NME1 has a neural crest-like phenotype and is highly metastatic in vivo	Examination of heterogeneous cell populations found within WM9 melanoma cell lines, which express high or low levels of NME1 protein	Melanoma
GSE104675	Role for the Transcriptional Activator ZRF1 in Breast Cancer Progression and Endocrine Resistance	RNAseq analysis upon KD of ZRF1 to prove that depletion of ZRF1 results in the acquisition of metastatic behavior and drug resistance via misregulation of cell death and cell survival related pathways in MCF7 cells.	Breast cancer/Cancer
GSE109957	Silencing p300 in MCF7 cells to study expression and alternative splicing	Splicing of precursor mRNA (pre-mRNA) is an important regulatory step in gene expression. Recent evidence points to a regulatory role of chromatin-related proteins in alternative splicing (AS) regulation. Using an unbiased approach, we have identified the acetyltransferase p300 as a key chromatin-related regulator of AS. P300 promotes genome-wide exon inclusion in both a transcription-dependent and ‑independent manner. Using CD44 as a paradigm, we found that p300 regulates AS by modulating the binding of splicing factors to pre-mRNA. Employing a tethering strategy, we found that binding of p300 to the CD44 promoter region promotes CD44v exon inclusion independently of RNAPII transcriptional elongation rate. Promoter-bound p300 regulates AS by acetylating splicing factors, leading to exclusion of hnRNP M from CD44 pre-mRNA and activation of Sam68. P300-mediated CD44 AS reduces cell motility and promotes epithelial features. Our findings reveal a mechanism through which chromatin-related proteins regulate AS and show the impact of this mechanism on cell function.	NA
GSE110557	RNA-seq analysis reveals profound changes in transcript profiles between siCon- and siH19-transfected uterine smooth muscle cells (USMC)	We used high throughput sequencing to analyze the gene expression profiling of human uterine smooth muscle cells (USMC). By comparing the gene expression profiling of USMC with or without H19 knockdown, 215 genes were found at least 1.5-fold up-regulated in siH19 relative to siCon cells, meanwhile 228 genes were found at least 1.5-fold down-regulated in siH19 over siCon cells.	knockdown
GSE116127	Transcriptomic analysis of the effect of trastuzumab in human iPSC-CMs	We used human iPSC-CMs generated from healthy individuals and performed RNA-sequencing after 7 days of trastuzumab treatment to examine the mechanism associated with contraction dysfunction in iPSC-CMs after trastuzumab treatment. Transcriptome analysis revealed the key role of an altered energy metabolism pathway for cardiomyocytes in the disease pathogenesis.	pathway
GSE117994	AML subtype is a major determinant of the association between prognostic gene expression signatures and their clinical significance.	Relapse in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) may result from variable genetic origins or convergence on common biological processes. Exploiting the specificity and sensitivity of regulatory DNA, we analyze patient samples of multiple clinical outcomes covering various AML molecular subtypes. We uncover regulatory variation between patients translating into a transcriptional signature that predicts relapse risk. In addition, we find clusters of co-expressed genes within this signature selectively link to relapse risk in distinct patient subgroups defined by molecular subtype or AML maturation. Analyzing these gene clusters and the AML subtypes separately enhances their prognostic value substantially and provides insight in the mechanisms underlying relapse risk across the distinct patient subgroups. We propose that prognostic gene expression signatures in AML are valid only within patient subgroups and do not transcend these subgroups.	Acute Myeloid Leukemia
GSE120190	Transcriptome analyses of iPSC-derived neural stem/progenitor cells and cerebral organoids from monozygotic twins discordant for schizoaffective bipolar disorder	To investigate the disease-associated differences in gene expression pattern during neuro developmental stage between the discordant twins, we performed RNA sequecing-based transcriptome analyses of iPSC-derived neural cells.	NA
GSE126151	A systematic analysis of nuclear heat-shock protein 90 identifies a metazoan-specific regulatory module	Molecular chaperones such as heat-shock proteins (HSPs) help in protein folding and complex assembly processes. Their role in cytosol has been very well elucidated. Chaperones are also present in the nucleus, a compartment where proteins enter after being fully folded in the cytosol, raising an important question about chaperones function in this compartment. We have performed a systematic analysis of nuclear heat- shock protein 90 to identify regulatory functions of this chaperone in the nucleus. Combining physical and genetic interactomes with a cancer co-expression screen allowed us to define 'core functional interactors' of nuclear HSP90 consisting of five proteins. Using transcriptional studies we identified Host Cell Factor C1 (HCFC1) as a metazoan-specific transcriptional regulator that depends on HSP90 for its stability in the nucleus. We found that HSP90 is required for optimal activity of HCFC1 in transcription. Thus our study provides the first global insight into the function of nuclear HSP90.	Cancer
GSE127831	Variable gene expression and parasite load predict treatment outcome in cutaneous leishmaniasis	Patients infected with Leishmania braziliensis develop chronic lesions that often fail to respond to treatment. To determine whether genes whose expression is highly variable in lesions might influence disease outcome, we obtained biopsies of lesions from patients prior to drug treatment, performed transcriptomic profiling, and identified highly variable genes whose expression correlated with treatment outcome. Amongst the most variable genes were components of the cytolytic pathway, the expression of which appeared to be driven by parasite load in the skin. We demonstrated that treatment failure can be directly linked to the cytolytic pathway activated during infection. Using this host-pathogen biomarker profile, we show that treatment outcome can be predicted before the start of treatment. These findings not only raise the possibility of point-of-care diagnostic screening to identify patients at high risk of treatment failure and provide a rationale for a precision medicine approach to drug selection in cutaneous leishmaniasis, but more broadly also demonstrate the value of identifying genes of high variability in other diseases to better understand and predict diverse clinical outcomes.	pathway
GSE129540	RNAseq analysis of ESRP regulated splicing events in prostate cancer	Progression of prostate cancer -the most frequent cancer in men- is driven by androgen steroid hormones, and delayed by androgen deprivation therapy (ADT). Androgens control transcription in prostate cancer cells by stimulating androgen receptor (AR) activity, but also control pre-mRNA splicing through less clear mechanisms. Here we examine whether androgens regulate splicing through AR-mediated transcriptional control of splicing regulator proteins. Supporting this mechanism we find AR controls ESRP2, which encodes a key epithelial-specific splicing regulator. Both ESRP2 and its close paralog ESRP1 are highly expressed in primary prostate cancer, and slow growth of prostate cancer xenografts in mice. Androgen stimulation induces splicing switches in many endogenous ESRP2-controlled mRNA isoforms, including a key splicing switch in the metastatic regulator FLNB which is associated with disease relapse after treatment. ESRP2 expression in clinical prostate cancer is repressed by ADT, which may thus inadvertently dampen epithelial splice programmes. Supporting this, FLNB splicing was reciprocally switched by the AR antagonist Casodex®. Our data reveal a new mechanism of splicing control in prostate cancer with important implications for disease progression.	Cancer/Prostate cancer
GSE130086	Expression data from human perivascular stem cell-derived extracellular vesicles (PSC-EVs) and PSCs	The vascular wall from diverse human organs is a source of mesenchymal progenitor cells that are able to induce skeletal repair, primarily by paracrine mechanisms.  To investigate these paracrine mechanisms, FACS purified human perivascular stem cells (PSC) were observed to induce mitogenic, pro-migratory, and pro-osteogenic effects on osteoprogenitor cells while in non-contact co-culture, and did so via elaboration of extracellular vesicles (EVs).  PSC-derived EVs shared mitogenic, pro-migratory, and pro-osteogenic properties of their parent cell. EVs represent a mixture of protein, lipid, and RNA that may affect cellular processes of the recipient cell. To begin to examine this, the RNA content of PSC-EVs was examined in comparison to the parent cell using total RNA sequencing.	NA
GSE130905	An improved method for circular RNA purification that efficiently removes linear RNAs containing G-quadruplexes or structured 3’ ends	Thousands of eukaryotic protein-coding genes generate circular RNAs that have covalently linked ends and are resistant to degradation by exonucleases. To prove their circularity as well as biochemically enrich these transcripts, it has become standard in the field to use the 3’-5’ exonuclease RNase R. Here, we demonstrate that standard protocols involving RNase R fail to digest >20% of all highly expressed linear RNAs, but that these shortcomings can be easily overcome. RNAs with highly structured 3’ ends, including snRNAs and histone mRNAs, are naturally resistant to RNase R, but can be efficiently degraded once a poly(A) tail has been added to their ends. In addition, RNase R stalls in the body of many mRNAs, especially at G-rich sequences that have been previously annotated as G-quadruplex (G4) structures. Upon replacing K+ (which stabilizes G4s) with Li+ in the reaction buffer, we find that RNase R is now able to proceed through these sequences and fully degrade the mRNAs in their entirety. In total, our results provide important improvements to the current methods used to isolate circular RNAs as well as a way to reveal RNA structures that may naturally inhibit degradation by cellular exonucleases.	NA
GSE130985	Comparison between THP-1 cells obtained from either ATCC or DSMZ biorepository	THP-1 cells obtained from ATCC or DSMZ were compared for their expression of MHC-I, their HLA type and their gene expression. Our results show that the two cell lines differ on many points.	NA
GSE132340	Hierarchy of mono- and bi-allelic TP53 alterations in Multiple Myeloma cell fitness	Comparison of the TP53 wild-type myeloma cell line AMO1 with the CRISPR/Cas9 engineered AMO1 cell line named UMC901. UMC901 harbors bi-allelic alterations to TP53:  TP53 del/mut. Analysis of impact of TP53 alterations on gene transcription and identification of affected pathways by transcriptome-wide differential gene expression analysis.	pathway
GSE132410	Indoxyl sulfate stimulates angiogenesis by regulating reactive oxygen species production via CYP1B1	Introduction: Indoxyl sulfate (IS) is an accumulated protein-bound uremic toxin found in patients with kidney disease. Although it is known that IS impairs the vascular endothelium, the precise underlying mechanism remains unclear. Methods: We performed RNA sequencing in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) that were treated with either IS or control medium. Gene enrichment analyses were performed based on differentially expressed genes. We further examined the main enriched biological processes at the functional level. Results: We identified 1,293 genes that were affected in IS-treated HUVECs when compared to control and gene enrichment analysis indicated altered vascular formation and cell metabolism. We observed decreased viability and increased cell senescence due to IS treatment at the functional level. Furthermore, we demonstrated that IS exposure of HUVECs promoted angiogenesis as shown by the increase in total tubule length in a 3D HUVECs/pericytes co-culture assay. We also observed an increase in ROS production in IS-treated endothelial cells. Notably, the pro-angiogenic response of IS and the increased ROS production were abolished when CYP1B1, one of the main target genes that was upregulated by IS, was silenced. Conclusion: IS promotes angiogenesis and CYP1B1 is an important factor in IS-activated angiogenic response.	NA
GSE132868	RelA mutants 'reconstituted' and cell cycle synchronized HCT116 Colorectal Cancer Cells	Protein deamidation is emerging as a post-translational modification that regulates protein function. The general role of protein deamidation is emerging asn fundamental to biological processes, yet remains is poorly understood. Here, we report that the rate-limiting enzyme of pyrimidine synthesis, a trifunctional enzyme containing activity of carbamoyl phosphate synthetase, aspartyl transcarbamoylase and dihydroorotase (CAD), deamidates the RelA subunit to inactivate NF-κB and promote glycolysis. Functional screening and identified CAD as a negative regulator of NF-κB activation, and biochemical analysis demonstrated that CAD deamidatesd RelA in vitro and in cellsto negate NF-κB activation. D eamidated RelA, though failed to activate the expression of NF-κB-dependent genes, thoughbut it up-regulated that of key glycolytic enzymes to promote glycolysis and cell proliferation. In proliferating cells, CAD is activated and catalyzes de novo pyrimidine synthesis to meet the metabolic need during S phase. CAD-mediated RelA deamidation and NF-κB inactivation and glycolytic gene expression paralleled in a cell cycle-dependent mannerdriven by CAD-mediated RelA deamidation are necessary for cell proliferation. In addition, CAD promoted glycolysis via deamidated RelA that up-regulated the expression of key glycolytic enzymes. Stratification of cancer cell lines by CAD-mediated RelA deamidation predicted their sensitivity to inhibitors of glycolytic enzymes, while a subset of mutations predisposed RelA to deamidation and promoted glycolysis to enable cell proliferation. This work describes a process of metabolic reprogramming enabled by CAD-mediated RelA deamidation that underpins cell proliferation and tumorigenesis.	Cancer/Colorectal cancer
GSE133903	Transcriptome analyses of human pancreatic islets and pseudoislets	We have observed an improvement of glucose-stimulated insulin secretion upon the formation of pseudoislets. Transcriptome analyses of islets and pseudoislets from the same human donor were performed to determine the functional improvement. We identified 38844 transcripts and revealed that unlike islets, pseudoislets were deprived of exocrine and endothelial cells. In addition, the mRNA levels of proteins related to apoptosis and inflammation as well as the components of extracellular matrix were less abundant in pseudoislets.	NA
GSE134517	A global overview of translation efficiency and ribosome occupancy at nucleotide resolution in HEK293 cells	Looking at ribosome distribution and translational efficiency in control conditions in HEK293 cell line. Combining this information with our other datasets from HEK293 cells has allowed us to look at ribosome occupancy of specific groups of mRNAs	NA
GSE135047	Quantitative comparison between cellular mRNAs and exosomal mRNAs in human iPSC-derived motor neurons	The order in the abundance of exosomal mRNAs was not the same with that of the source cellular mRNAs in human iPSC-derived motor neurons.	NA
GSE135229	ETS family proteins bind glucocorticoid receptor: relevance for treatment of Ewing sarcoma	Differential expression of gene was analyzed after FLI1 silencing in Ewing Sarcoma cell line A673.	NA
GSE137238	Profiling gene expression changes in primary ovarian tumors compared to matched normal fallopian tubes	Ovarian cancer is the deadliest gynecologic malignancy and the fifth leading cause for cancer related deaths among women in USA. For a comprehensive understanding of the gene expression changes accompanying ovarian carcinogenesis, we isolated RNA from 8 pairs of matched FT and primary tumors from OC patients and sequenced them. Library preparation and next generation RNA sequencing was carried out at the Center for Genomics and Bioinformatics core facility, Indiana University, Bloomington. The library preparation was done using TruSeq Stranded mRNA HT Sample Prep kit (Illumina cat#RS-122-2103) according to the manufacturer’s protocol and 8-neucleotide barcodes were added for multiplexing. The barcoded libraries were cleaned by bead cut with AMPure XP beads (Beckman Coulter, cat#A63882), verified using Qubit3 fluorometer (ThermoFisher Scientific) and 2200 TapeStation bioanalyzer (Agilent Technologies), and then pooled. The pool was sequenced on NextSeq 500 (Illumina) with NextSeq75 High Output v2 kit (Illumina cat#FC-404-2005).	Cancer
GSE138611	Extracellular matrix hydrogel derived from decellularized tissues enables endoderm organoids culture	Organoids have extensive therapeutic potential and are increasingly opening up new avenues within regenerative medicine. However, the clinical application is greatly limited by the lack of effective GMP-compliant systems for organoid expansion in culture. Here, we envisage that the use of extracellular matrix hydrogels derived from decellularized tissues (DT) can provide an environment capable of directing cell growth. These gels possess the biochemical signature of tissue-specific ECM, and have the potential for clinical translation. Gels from decellularized porcine small intestinal mucosa/submucosa enable formation and growth of endoderm-derived human organoids, such as gastric, liver, pancreas, and small intestine. ECM gels could be used for direct organoids derivation from human biopsies, multiple passages with transcriptomic signature comparable to gold standard culture system, and in vivo organoid delivery. The development of these ECM-derived hydrogels opens up the potential for human organoids to be used clinically.	NA
GSE139018	RNAseq Analysis in glioblastoma cells treated with Mepazine	Glioblastoma cells were treated with vehicle (DMSO) or mepazine (MPZ, 20 μM, 4 hours) and prepared for RNAseq according to ActiveMotif standard procedure. The list of differentially expressed genes from DESeq2 output was selected based on 10% adjusted p-value level and FDR of 0.1.	NA
GSE140483	Organelle-based therapy for immune mediated disease: mitochondrial transfer elicits Tregs reprogramming	Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) have fueled ample translation for the treatment of immune mediated diseases. They exert immunoregulatory and tissue restoring effects. MSCmediated transfer of mitochondria (MitoT) had been demonstrated to rescue target organs from tissue damage. While the mechanism remains to be fully resolved, we explored the effect of MitoT on lymphoid cells. Here, we describe dose dependent MitoT from mitochondria-labelled MSCs mainly to T CD4+ rather than to T CD8+ or CD19+ B-cells. Artificial transfer of isolated MSC-derived mitochondria increased the expression of mRNA transcripts involved in T cell activation and T-regulatory cell differentiation including FOXP3, IL2RA, CTLA4 and TGFβ1, leading to an increase of a highly suppressive CD25+FoxP3+ population. In a GVHD mouse model, transplantation of MitoT-induced human T cells led to significant improvement in survival and reduction in tissue damage and organ T CD4+, CD8+ and IFNγ+ expressing cell infiltration. These findings point to a unique CD4+ T cell reprogramming mechanism with pre-clinical proof of concept data that pave the way for the exploration of organelle-based therapies in immune diseases.	NA
GSE104944	Region-specific Innate Antiviral Responses of the Human Epididymis	Viral infections of the epididymis are associated with epididymitis, which damages the epithelium and impairs fertility. We showed previously that innate immune response genes were differentially expressed in the corpus and cauda region of the human epididymis in comparison to the caput. Here we investigate the antiviral defense response mechanisms of human epididymis epithelial (HEE) cells. Toll-like receptor (TLR) 3 and retinoic acid-inducible gene I (RIG-I)- like receptors (RLRs) are enriched in HEE cells from the corpus and cauda region. Furthermore, corpus and cauda HEE cells show an enhanced response to antiviral ligands (poly(I:C) and HSV-60), as shown by increased IFN-β mRNA expression and secretion of IFN-β. We also show that paired box 2 (PAX2), which was implicated in regulating antiviral response pathways is required for basal expression of the DNA sensor, Z-DNA binding protein (ZBP1) and type I interferon, in caput but not in cauda cells.	pathway
GSE107589	RNA-seq in transgenic cells	To investigate the effects of natural TAG encoding in transgenic cells, RNA-seq was performed to compared the expression profiles of these genes	NA
GSE113524	Discovery of autism/intellectual disability somatic mutations in Alzheimer's brains: mutated ADNP cytoskeletal impairments and repair as a case study	De novo mutated ADNP is a most prevalent gene driving syndromic autism with intellectual disability. Using droplet digital PCR and RNA sequencing we identified somatic mutations in ADNP and in other genes in the olfactory bulb and hipocampi of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients.	Intellectual disability/Alzheimer
GSE113799	RNA-seq of PC3 prostate cancer cell line xenografts in mice administered the ghrelin receptor antagonist [D-Lys3]-GHRP-6 or PBS for two weeks	The ghrelin receptor antagonist [D-Lys3]-GHRP-6 (or PBS control) was administered for two weeks to NOD/SCID mice with PC3 prostate cancer cell line xenografts. Daily intraperitoneal injections of 20 nmoles/mouse/day [D-Lys3]-GHRP-6 significantly reduced xenograft tumour size at day 9 to 14. RNA-sequencing was performed on xenograft tumours at experimental endpoint (14 days).	Cancer/Prostate cancer
GSE115153	Biological effect of chronic mistranslation in mammalian cells	Analysis of HEK293 cells lines  expressing mutant ribosomal protein RPS2 (human A226Y). RPS2 A226Y mutation has been shown to cause misreading and readthrough. Results provide insight into the response to chronic mistranslation in mammalian cells.	NA
GSE115414	Discovery of lncRNA biomarkers of prostate cancer	In the last decade, new high-throughput sequencing techniques have revealed the complexity of the human transcriptome, allowing the characterization of long non-coding (lnc)RNAs. Since their expression has been reported as very specific to tissue, developmental stage and pathological variations, some lncRNAs have been proposed as biomarkers for diagnosis as well as prognosis of tumors. In this project, we aim to build an exhaustive catalogue of long non-coding RNAs and isolate those which allow detection and risk assessement of prostate cancer. For this purpose we performed a high throughput total stranded  RNA-sequencing of 24 samples (8 normal and 16 tumor tissues).	Cancer/Prostate cancer
GSE116142	Fibroblasts in cholesteatoma activate osteoclasts.	Cholesteatoma arises from a tympanic membrane and expands in the middle ear. It erodes the surrounding bone and leads to hearing loss or brain abscess which is lethal complication. Currently, the only effective treatment is the complete surgical removal of cholesteatoma. However, possibility of recurrence is not satisfactory, other clinical treatment is desired. A mechanism of bone erosion in rheumatoid arthritis, which is one of the bone destructive disease, is progressing to be clarified. Receptor activator of NF-κB ligand (RANKL) secreted by synovial fibroblasts, T cells, and B cells lead to differentiation and activation of osteoclast precursor in rheumatoid arthritis. In contrast it has been still unclear why cholesteatoma erodes bone. In the current study we studied that osteoclasts statistically increased in cholesteatoma, and that fibroblasts in the prematrix of cholesteatoma express RANKL. In this study we studied that osteoclasts statistically increased in cholesteatoma, and that fibroblasts in the prematrix of cholesteatoma express RANKL. We investigated upstream of RANKL from RNA sequence results by Ingenuity Pathways Analysis, which is data base of abundance information about molecular biology.	Rheumatoid arthritis/pathway
GSE117523	Targets of CDK12 on ZR-75-30 breast cancer cells (RNA-seq)	RNA-sequencing analysis of CDK12 overexpressiong ZR-75-30 cell lines. Cyclin dependent kinase 12 (CDK12) is amplified in approximately 70-90% of HER2 amplified breast cancer. Results provide insight into the targets of CDK12 in HER2 positive breast cancer.	Breast cancer/Cancer
GSE118645	BCL6 confers KRAS-mutant NSCLCs resistance to BET inhibitors	We report that OTX015 upregulates BCL6 in KRAS-mutant NSCLC cells. Considering that both BCL6 and BET proteins regulate target genes by affecting transcription, we performed an RNA-seq experiment to identify downstream genes which response to OTX015. Retinal mRNA profiles of A549 cells treated with DMSO (0.1% for 6 hr) and OTX015 (1 μM for 6 hr) were generated by deep sequencing, in triplicate, using the SOLiD v4 sequencing platform. The sequence reads that passed quality filters were analyzed at the transcript isoform level with two methods: Burrows-Wheeler Aligner (BWA) followed by ANOVA (ANOVA) and TopHat followed by Cufflinks. qRT-PCR validation was performed using TaqMan and SYBR Green assays.	NA
GSE119916	RNA-seq of healthy CD34+ HSPCs after co-culture with myelodyplastic syndrome patient-derived mesenchymal stromal cells	Cytopenia in at least one of the hematopoietic lineages (RBCs, WBCs or platelets) is a hallmark feature of MDS, indicating the lack of ability to support HSPC proliferation and the retention of their multilineage potential in the bone marrow. Here, wel investigate MDS-MSCs (with and without 5-azacitidine pre-treatment) as feeder layers for healthy CD34+ HSPCs. We performed RNA sequencing of co-cultured CD34+ HSPCs to compare their transcriptomic signatures after exposure to treated vs untreated MDS-MSCs.	NA
GSE120521	RNA-seq of stable and unstable section of human atherosclerotic plaques	Atherosclerosis is a serious and very common condition where plaque builds up inside arteries and that can lead to heart attack or stroke. The development and rupture of the plaque is a complex process, involving the interplay of many cell types and the extracellular environment. We performed RNAseq on stable and unstable regions dissected from fresh human carotid plaques obtained at carotid endarterectomy in symptomatic patients. The dissection of the plaques into stable and unstable regions was based on macroscopic appearance, with unstable regions characterised as the visible zone of plaque rupture.	NA
GSE121626	Overexpression of UGT2B17 in MEC1 and JVM2 leukemia cell lines	UGT2B17 is a recently identified molecular marker for poor prognosis in Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (CLL), which is the most prevalent adult leukemia subtype in the western world. The goal of this study was to determine the effects of UGT2B17 expression in leukemia cells and to find molecular pathways associated with high UGT2B17 expression. We characterized the effects of UGT2B17 in two leukemia cell lines (MEC1 and JVM2) overexpressing a functional UGT2B17 enzyme. A first line of inquiries based on RNA sequencing analysis revealed a series of genes differentially expressed in UGT2B17 overexpressing cells compared to controls, with several genes related to arachidonic acid metabolism and signaling.	pathway
GSE125772	ELF4 is a target of miR-124 and promotes neuroblastoma proliferation and undifferentiated state	We performed RNA-seq to identify the transcriptional targets of ELF4 in BE-(2)-C neuroblastoma cells.	NA
GSE128669	RNA-seq (PolyA) of RNA from Tet-inducible SaOS2-p21 cells	RNA was extracted from SaOS2 cells harboring a tet-inducible p21 expression vector. 3 replicates from untreated and 3 replicates from 24h doxycycline-treated cells.	NA
GSE129194	m6A in mRNA coding regions promotes translation via the RNA helicase-containing YTHDC2	Dynamic mRNA modification in the form of N6-methyladenosine (m6A) adds considerable richness and sophistication to gene regulation. The m6A mark is asymmetrically distributed along mature mRNAs, with a strong preference around the stop codon and 3’UTR. Nevertheless, approximately 35% of m6A residues are located within the coding region (CDS). It has been suggested that methylation in CDS slows down translation elongation by interfering the decoding process. However, neither the decoding feature of endogenous mRNAs nor the physiological significance of CDS m6A has been clearly defined. By integrating Ribo-seq and m6A-seq data sets, we found that CDS m6A methylation leads to ribosome pausing in a codon-specific manner. Unexpectedly, removing CDS m6A modification from these transcripts results in a further decrease of translation. A systemic analysis of RNA structural datasets revealed that CDS m6A methylation positively regulates translation by resolving mRNA secondary structures. We further demonstrate that the elongation-promoting effect of CDS methylation requires the RNA helicase-containing m6A reader YTHDC2. Our findings established the physiological significance of CDS methylation and uncovered non-overlapping function of m6A reader proteins.	NA
GSE131504	Characterization of Human Pegivirus Infection in Liver Transplantation Recipients	Approximately 2% of heathy persons are infected with human pegivirus (HPgV). HPgV is transmitted via vertical, sexual, and blood-borne routes. Recently, the association of HPgV infection with the risk of lymphoma was reported. We examined the prevalence of chronic HPgV infection in liver transplantation (LT) recipients and hepatectomy patients and the influence of HPgV infection after LT on clinical and perioperative factors. We enrolled 313 LT recipients and 187 hepatectomy patients who received care at the Kyusyu University Hospital between May 1997 and September 2017. Total RNA was extracted from peripheral blood samples of patients/recipients collected postoperatively. HPgV RNA was measured using real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Of the 313 recipients and 187 patients enrolled in this study, 44 recipients (14.1%) and two patients (1.1%) had HPgV viremia. There was no significant association between HPgV infection and LT outcomes. Interestingly, one recipient was infected with HPgV during the peritransplant period, which was likely transmitted via blood transfusion as HPgV RNA was detected from the blood bag transfused to the recipient during LT. Additionally, HPgV infection induced the upregulation of interferon stimulated gene (ISG) expression in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs). LT recipients had higher HPgV viremia compared to hepatectomy patients. Although HPgV infection was not associated with LT-related outcomes, it induced ISG expression in recipients.	NA
GSE132174	SLIGRL-induced gene expression changes in NHEK cells	NHEK cells were treated with the PAR2 agonist SLIGRL to study changes in gene expression following PAR2 activation	NA
GSE133677	LncRNA NONHSAT113026 represses renal cell carcinoma tumorigenesis through interacting with NF-κB/p50 and SLUG	We provide evidence that NOAT113026 inhibits renal cancer proliferative and mobility potential by blocking NF-κB/p50 and SLUG expression, which consequently inhibiting the production of oncogenic chemokines and metastasis-promoting genes. Our findings manifest that NOAT113026 may become a critical and feasible target for RCC treatment because of its anti-proliferative and anti-metastatic properties and emerge as an important biomarker for the detection of overall survival and disease-free survival.	Renal cell carcinoma
GSE133976	GREB1, a novel target of Wnt signaling, promotes development of hepatoblastoma by suppressing TGFβ signaling	The β-catenin mutation is frequently observed in hepatoblastoma (HB), but the underlying mechanism by which Wnt/β-catenin signaling induces HB tumor formation is unknown. We found that expression of growth regulation by estrogen in breast cancer 1 (GREB1) depends on Wnt/β-catenin signaling in HB patients. GREB1 was localized to the nucleus where it bound Smad2/3 in a competitive manner with p300 and inhibited TGFβ signaling, thereby promoting HepG2 HB cell proliferation. Forced expression of β-catenin, YAP, and c-Met induced HB-like mouse liver tumor (BYM mice), with an increase in GREB1 expression and HB markers. Depletion of GREB1 strongly suppressed marker gene expression and HB-like liver tumorigenesis, and instead enhanced TGFβ signaling in BYM mice. Furthermore, antisense oligonucleotides for GREB1 suppressed the formation of HepG2 cell-induced tumors and HB-like tumors in vivo. We propose that GREB1 is a novel target molecule of Wnt/β-catenin signaling and required for HB progression.	Breast cancer/Cancer
GSE134122	Transcriptional responses of human insulinoma cells to acute cytokine exposure	Purpose: The goal of this study is to characterize the effects of acute cytokine stimulations on human insulinoma cells, EndoC-betaH1, at the transcriptome level. Methods: mRNA profiles of EndoC-betaH1 cells with or without cytokine exposure were generated by deep sequencing, using Illumina Illumina HiSeq 2500. Results: Using an optimized data analysis workflow, we mapped about 100 million (2x100bp) paired reads per sample to the human genome (build hg38) and identified about 44,000 transcripts per sample with Star/Class workflow.  Approximately 600 known genes showed differential expression between the Control and Cytokines, with a log fold change ≥1.5, at least one of the FPKM >=2 and p-value <0.05. Conclusions: Cytokine exposure did not alter the overall transcriptome profile. All three branches of the unfold protein response (UPR) were engaged in cytokine stress with upregulations of ER chaperones, protein disulfide isomerase and key transcription factors involved in adaptive UPR signaling. Key components of the apoptotic program were largely unchanged or modestly upregulated. In contrast, genes in the ER-associated protein degradation (ERAD) pathway were sharply activated. These findings provide a framework for comparative investigations of cytokine-induced differential protein expression by quantitative proteomics.	pathway
GSE135420	Gene expression profiling of leukemia cells following asparagine depletion	We will report the gene expression changes following asparagine depletion in human ALL cell line, RS4;11	NA
GSE135548	Human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived vocal fold mucosa mimics development and responses to smoke exposure	Development of treatments for vocal dysphonia has been inhibited by lack of human vocal fold (VF) mucosa models because of difficulty in procuring VF epithelial cells, epithelial cells’ limited proliferative capacity and absence of cell lines. We report development of engineered VF mucosae from hiPSC, transfected via TALEN constructs for green fluorescent protein, that mimic development of VF epithelial cells in utero. Modulation of FGF signaling achieves stratified squamous epithelium from definitive and anterior foregut derived cultures. Robust culturing of these cells on collagen-fibroblast constructs produces three-dimensional models comparable to in vivo VF mucosa. Second, we demonstrate mucosal inflammation upon exposure of these constructs to 5% cigarette smoke extract. Upregulation of pro-inflammatory genes in epithelium and fibroblasts leads to aberrant VF mucosa remodeling. Collectively, our results demonstrate that hiPSC-derived VF mucosa is a versatile tool for future investigation of genetic and molecular mechanisms underlying epithelium-fibroblasts interactions in health and disease.	NA
GSE136299	Evolved Labels of Placental Invasion in Human and Bovine Endometrial Stroma	Among mammals, the extent of placental invasion is correlated with vulnerability to malignancy. Animals with more invasive placentation (e.g. humans) are more vulnerable to malignancy, whereas animals with a non-invasive placenta (e.g. ruminants) are less likely to develop malignant cancer. To explain this correlation,we propose the hypothesis of Evolved Levels ofInvasibility (ELI) positing that the permissiveness of stromal tissue to invasion is a unitary character affecting both placental and cancer invasion. We provide evidence for this hypothesis by contrasting invasion of human and bovine cancer and placental cells into a lawn of stromal cells from different species. We find that both bovine endometrial andskin fibroblasts are more resistant to invasion of placental and cancer cells than their human counterparts. Gene expression profiling identified genes with high expression in human but not bovine fibroblasts. Knocking down of a subset of them in human fibroblasts leads to significantly stronger resistance to cancer cell invasion. Comparative analysis of gene expression among mammals suggests that humans evolved higher vulnerability to malignancy than the eutherian ancestor, possibly as a correlate of more invasive placentation, and boroeutherians evolved to decrease stromal invasibility. Identifying the evolutionary determinants of stromal invasibility can provide significant insights to developrational anti-metastatic therapeutics.	Cancer
GSE136366	Gene expression analysis of the impact of TDP-43 knockout in human cells.	Purpose:  The goal of this stuydy was to apply  transcriptome profiling (RNA-seq) to human cells that either express or which lack the TDP-43 protein. Methods: mRNA profiles of TDP-43 KO HeLa cells and "rescued" TDP-43 KO cells wherein a wildtype TDP-43 transgene was re-expressed at endogenous levels  were generated by deep sequencing, in triplicate,  on Illumina’s HiSeq 2500 using 2x70bp paired-end reads, generating 104.4-128.2 million reads (52.2-64.1 million pairs) per sample. . The sequence reads that passed quality filters were analyzed at the transcript isoform level with TopHat2 followed by Cufflinks Cuffmerge and Cuffdiff to define transcripts and establish their abundance and  finally to perform differential gene expression analysis, using the assembled known plus novel transcripts . Results: Using an optimized data analysis workflow, we mapped approximately 50-60 million reads per sample to the human genome (build hg19) and identified transcripts whose abundance differed between the TDP-43 KO versus "rescued" conditions. Conclusions: Our study presents a detailed analysis of the impact of the knockout of TDP-43 on the transcriptome of a human cell line. The results reported here should provide a framework for defining transcripts whose abundnace and splicing are regulated by TDP-43.	knockout
GSE137802	IQGAP3 interacts with Rad17 to activate the MRN/ATM/Chk2 signaling and promote radioresistance in lung cancer	IQ motif containing GTPase activating protein 3 (IQGAP3) has been implicated in diverse cellular processes including neuronal morphogenesis, cell proliferation and motility as well as epithelial-mesenchymal transition. However, its roles in DNA damage and repair remain to be clarified. Here, we demonstrate that IQGAP3 is frequently overproduced and predicts poor prognosis in lung cancer patients. Functionally, we provide evidence that depletion of IQGAP3 impairs tumorigenesis and overcomes radioresistance in lung cancer in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, we uncover that IQGAP3 interacts with and controls the stability of Rad17 to activate the ATM/Chk2 signaling by recruiting Mre11-Rad50-Nbs1 (MRN) complex in response to DNA damage. Moreover, Rad17 is identified as the major downstream effector that mediates the functions of IQGAP3 in lung cancer. Clinically, IQGAP3 overexpression positively correlates with Rad17 protein levels in human lung cancer tissues. Collectively, these data support key roles for IQGAP3 in promoting tumorigenesis and radioresistance in lung cancer by stabilizing the Rad17 protein and suggest targeting IQGAP3 is a promising therapeutic strategy for lung cancer radiotherapy.	Cancer/Lung cancer
GSE137843	Gene expression changes in HSV-1 infected HeLa cells with knockdown of B2M	To understand the global effects of B2M knock-down on host gene expression, the RNA-seq study was carried out using HSV-1 infected HeLa cells transfected with B2M siRNAs (siB2M) or negative control siRNAs (siCTRL)	knockdown
GSE138531	Aortic Valve Tissue: Stenosis vs. Sclerosis	We are looking at differential gene/protein expression in tissue from stenotic vs sclerotic human aortic valves in order to identify genetic predispositions for aortic valve disease, as well as novel targets for diagnostic and therapeutic strategies.	NA
GSE138937	Effect of CTCF and Rad21 knockdown on SLK cells and KSHV gene expression	CTCF and the cohesin complex modify chromatin by binding to DNA and interacting with each other and with other cellular proteins.  Both proteins regulate transcription by a variety of local effects on transcription and by long range topological effects.  CTCF and cohesin also bind to herpesvirus genomes at specific sites and regulate viral transcription during latent and lytic cycles of replication.  Kaposi’s sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) transcription is regulated by CTCF and cohesin, with both proteins previously reported to act as restrictive factors for lytic cycle transcription and virion production.  In this study, we examined the interdependence of CTCF and cohesin binding to the KSHV genome.  ChIP-seq analyses revealed that cohesin binding to the KSHV genome is highly CTCF dependent whereas CTCF binding does not require cohesin.  Further, depletion of CTCF leads to almost complete dissociation of cohesin from sites at which they colocalize.  Thus, previous studies which examined the effects of CTCF depletion actually represent concomitant depletion of both CTCF and cohesin components.  Analysis of the effects of single and combined depletion indicate that CTCF primarily activates KSHV lytic transcription whereas cohesin has primarily inhibitory effects.  Further, CTCF or cohesin depletion was found to have regulatory effects on cellular gene expression relevant for control of viral infection, with both proteins potentially facilitating expression of multiple genes important in the innate immune response to viruses.  Thus, CTCF and cohesin have both positive and negative effects on KSHV lytic replication as well as effects on the host cell that enhance antiviral defenses.	knockdown
GSE139061	Transcriptomic Signatures of Kidney Injury in Human Renal Biopsy Specimens	The pathogenesis and molecular signature of human acute kidney injury (AKI) remain incompletely understood, in part, owing to the heterogeneity of the disease. Further, the link between animal models and human AKI is not well characterized. Transcript expression of AKI in 39 native human renal biopsy samples was compared to 9 reference nephrectomies. These data demonstrate that the molecular signature segregates patients with AKI in spite of similar pathological and clinical phenotyping. Such molecular characterization will offer advantages in categorizing and understanding the underlying pathogenesis of phenotypically complex and heterogeneous forms of AKI.	NA
GSE139135	Molecular characterization of BRSK2 and BRSK1 kinases as negative regulators of the NRF2 transcription factor	We found that the understudied Brain Specific Kinase 2 and 1 (BRSK2/1) proteins suppress NRF2-dependent transcription and NRF2 protein levels in a kinase-dependent fashion. Integrative phosphoproteomic screens, RNAseq profiling and follow-up validation studies revealed BRSK2/1-driven activation of AMPK and suppression of MTOR signaling. BRSK2 over-expression suppressed global protein synthesis and decreased ribosome-RNA associations, which results in decreased NRF2 protein levels. Overall, our data establish the BRSK1 and BRSK2 kinases as negative regulators of NRF2 via the AMPK/MTOR signaling axis.	NA
GSE140031	RNASeq of Arg2 gRNA or scrambled gRNA CRISPR'd Tregs	The aim of the study was to analyze the transcriptional profile of Tregs following CRISPR deletion of Arg2	NA
GSE140275	Expression profile and potential functions of circulating long noncoding RNAs in acute ischemic stroke in the Southern Chinese Han population	Background: Long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) have been confirmed to be associated with ischemic stroke (IS); however, their involvement still needs to be extensively explored. Therefore, we aimed to study the expression profile of lncRNAs and the potential roles and mechanisms of lncRNAs in the pathogenesis of acute ischemic stroke (AIS) in the Southern Chinese Han population. Methods: lncRNA and mRNA expression profiles in AIS were analyzed using high-throughput RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq) and validated using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). Gene Ontology (GO), Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment and network analyses were performed to predict the functions and interactions of the aberrantly expressed genes. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis was performed to evaluate the diagnostic value of lncRNAs in AIS. Results: RNA-Seq analysis showed that 428 lncRNAs and 957 mRNAs were significantly upregulated, while 791 lncRNAs and 4263 mRNAs were downregulated in patients with AIS when compared with healthy controls. GO enrichment and KEGG pathway analyses of differentially expressed genes showed that the apoptosis, inflammatory, oxidative and calcium signaling pathways were potentially implicated in AIS pathology. The PCR results showed that the selected lncRNA-C14orf64 and lncRNA-AC136007.2 were significantly downregulated in AIS. ROC curve analysis showed that the area under the ROC curve (AUC) values of lncRNA-C14orf64 and lncRNA-AC136007.2 between AIS and healthy controls were 0.74 and 0.94, respectively. Conclusion: This study provides evidence of altered expression of lncRNAs and their potential functions in AIS. Our findings may facilitate pathological mechanistic studies of lncRNAs in AIS and provide potential diagnostic biomarkers and therapeutic targets for AIS.	pathway
GSE140627	Urinary sediment transcriptomic and longitudinal data to investigate renal function decline in type 1 diabetes	Using a discovery/validation approach we investigated associations between a panel of genes selected from a transcriptomic study and the renal function decline across time in a cohort of type 1 diabetes patients.	NA
GSE76491	Coordination of neuron production in mouse and human cerebral cortex by the homolog of Drosophila Mastermind protein	The coordination of progenitor self-renewal, neuronal production and migration is essential to the normal development and evolution of the cerebral cortex. Numerous studies have shown that the Notch, Wnt/beta-catenin and Neurogenin pathways contribute separately to progenitor expansion, neurogenesis, and neuronal migration, but it is unknown how these signals are coordinated. In vitro studies suggested that the mastermind-like 1 (MAML1) gene, homologue of the Drosophila Mastermind, plays a role in coordinating the afore-mentioned signaling pathways, yet its role during cortical development remains largely unknown. Here we show that ectopic expression of dominant-negative MAML (dnMAML) causes exuberant neuronal production in the mouse cortex without disrupting neuronal migration. Comparing the transcriptional consequences of dnMAML and Neurog2 ectopic expression revealed a complex genetic network controlling the balance of progenitor expansion versus neuronal production. Manilpulation of MAML and Neurog2 in cultured human cerebral stem cells exposed interactions with the same set of signaling pathways. Thus, our data suggest that evolutionary changes that affect the timing, tempo and density of successive neuronal layers of the small lissencephalic rodent and large convoluted primate cerebral cortex depend on similar molecular mechanisms that act from the earliest developmental stages.	pathway
GSE103320	Control of prostate tumour growth by the long non-coding RNA GHSROS (LNCaP)	We overexpressed the long non-coding RNA GHSROS in the metastatic prostate cancer cell line LNCaP and subcutaneously injected the cells into NOD/SCID mice.	Cancer/Prostate cancer
GSE109281	Subclonal cooperation drives metastasis through modulating local and systemic immune microenvironments	Bulk RNA-Seq: Gene expression analysis of stromal and tumor fractions of primary and metastatic lesions of polyclonal and monoclonal origin. Primary tumor control samples consist of monoclonal Thy1.1 (no replicates), monoclonal parental (no replicates), monoclonal IL11 (duplicate), monoclonal FIGF (duplicate), and monoclonal CFP (duplicate). Primary polyclonal tumor samples consist of separated Thy 1.1 (duplicate), CFP (no replicates), IL11 (triplicate), and FIGF (triplicate). Metastatic tumor samples consist of monoclonal CFP (duplicate), monoclonal IL11 (quadruplicate), monoclonal FIGF (quadruplicate), monoclonal Thy1.1 (duplicate), and polyclonal samples (duplicate). Metastatic stromal fractions consist of monoclonal CFP (duplicate), monoclonal FIGF (quadruplicate), monoclonal IL11 (quadruplicate), monoclonal parental (duplicate), monoclonal Thy1.1 (duplicate), and polyclonal samples (triplicate). Primary stromal  samples consist of monoclonal CFP (duplicate), monoclonal FIGF (duplicate), monoclonal IL11 (duplicate), monoclonal parental (no replicates), monoclonal Thy1.1 (duplicate), and polyclonal samples (triplicate). Further stromal controls consisted of a single fatpad sample and lung sample.     Single cell RNA-Seq: Blood, tumors and lungs were isolated from test groups (DOX+ and DOX-) and tumor-naÃ¯ve animals. Samples were pooled across 3 animals per group, and CD45+populations were FACS-sorted. Two thousand single cells were targeted for each sample.	NA
GSE118762	Transcriptome-wide analysis of adipose circular RNAs reveals their dynamic regulation in obesity and functional role in adipogenesis	Non-coding RNAs are emerging as novel regulators in adipocyte differentiation and function. Circular RNAs (circRNAs) are a new class of non-coding transcripts generated across all eukaryotic tissues, but their function in adipose biology remains unknown. Here we perform deep sequencing of visceral and subcutaneous fat to discover thousands of adipose circRNAs, many of which are species-conserved, tissue-specific and dynamically regulated during adipogenesis and obesity. We identified circTshz2-1 and circArhgap5-2 as indispensable regulators of adipogenesis in vitro. To characterize the function of circRNAs in vivo, we injected adenoviral shRNA targeting circArhgap5-2 into mouse inguinal tissue and found that the expression of this circRNA was essential in maintaining the global adipocyte transcriptional programme involved in lipid biosynthesis and metabolism. Furthermore, we demonstrated that the pro-adipogenic function of circArhgap5-2 is conserved in human adipocytes. Our results provide important evidence that circRNAs serve as important regulators in adipocyte differentiation and metabolism.	Obesity
GSE120303	Identification of gene signature in ascitic fluid-isolated mesothelial cells from high grade serous ovarian cancer patients	RNA-sequencing analysis was carried out on ascitic fluid-isolated mesothelial cells from ovarian cancer patients compared to control human peritoneal mesothelial cells.	Cancer
GSE128805	Cancer-Causing Mutations in SF3B1 Alter Splicing by Disrupting Interaction with SUGP1	SF3B1, which encodes an essential spliceosomal protein, is frequently mutated in myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) and many cancers. However, the defect of mutant SF3B1 is unknown. Here, we analyzed RNA-sequencing data from MDS patients and confirmed that SF3B1 mutants use aberrant 3' splice sites. To elucidate the underlying mechanism, we purified complexes containing either wild-type or the hotspot K700E mutant SF3B1, and found that levels of a poorly studied spliceosomal protein, SUGP1, were reduced in mutant spliceosomes. Strikingly, SUGP1 knockdown completely recapitulated the splicing errors, whereas SUGP1 overexpression drove the protein, which our data suggests plays an important role in branchsite recognition, into the mutant spliceosome and partially rescued splicing. Other hotspot SF3B1 mutants showed similar altered splicing and diminished interaction with SUGP1. Our study demonstrates that SUGP1 loss is the sole defect of mutant SF3B1 spliceosomes and, since this defect can be rescued, suggests possibilities for therapeutic intervention.	Cancer
GSE129467	RNA-seq analysis of SKMEL28 melanoma cells following DIRC3 and IGFBP5 ASO knockdown	We identified genes regulated by the DIRC3 long non-coding RNA and its neighbouring tumour suppressor gene IGFBP5 and determined common targets. DIRC3 and IGFBP5 were knocked down by transient transfection of antisense oligonucleotides (ASOs) in the human melanoma cell line Sk-Mel-28. RNA was extracted 72 hours after transfection and polyA selected 150-bp paired end RNA sequencing was performed on the Illumina HiSeq4000 . 	Melanoma/knockdown
GSE133521	RNA-seq analysis of A498 cell line treated with siSETD2 or si-NC	the coordinated expression of SETD2-miRNAs-MAPK/JNK may be predictive of poor prognostic in patients with RCC. Our findings also emphasize the therapeutic potential of MAP4K4 in RCC therapy and support the development of an effective therapeutic strategy to target MAP4K4 by molecularly targeted approaches.	NA
GSE133731	RNA sequencing for PDX1, NGN3 and MAFA transduced iPSCs cell	Global gene expression profiling identifies accelerated induction of genes upon PDX1, NGN3 and MAFA transduction.	NA
GSE137136	The impact of pro-inflammatory cytokines on the β-cell regulatory landscape provides insights into the genetics of type 1 diabetes	Early stages of type 1 diabetes (T1D) are characterized by local autoimmune inflammation and progressive loss of insulin-producing pancreatic β cells. We show here that exposure to pro-inflammatory cytokines unmasks a marked plasticity of the β-cell regulatory landscape. We expand the repertoire of human islet regulatory elements by mapping stimulus-responsive enhancers linked to changes in the β-cell transcriptome, proteome and 3D chromatin structure. Our data indicates that the β cell response to cytokines is mediated by the induction of novel regulatory regions as well as the activation of primed regulatory elements pre-bound by islet-specific transcription factors. We found that T1D-associated loci are enriched of the newly mapped cis-regulatory regions and identify T1D-associated variants disrupting cytokine-responsive enhancer activity in human β cells. Our study illustrates how β cells respond to a pro-inflammatory environment and implicate a role for stimulus-response islet enhancers in T1D.	variant
GSE138219	SNHG12 knockdown in Human Umbilical Vein Cells under ROS conditions.	Study the role of the lncRNA SNHG12 in human endothelial cells towards DNA damage triggers.	knockdown
GSE138248	mRNA sequencing of highly and lowly metastatic human colorectal cancer PDXs	We performed in-vivo selection of human patient derived colorectal cancer xenografts. 4 independent highly-liver metastatic sub-lines (lvm PDXs) were generated. Those lvm PDXs were harvested with the corresponding parental PDX tumors from mice and then we performed MACS mice cell depletion followed by FACS sorting to obtain human EpCAM positive and mice MHC negatitve populations. total RNA was extracted from those ex-vivo tumors and high-throuput sequencing was performed	Cancer/Colorectal cancer
GSE135831	Exogenous pyruvate represses histone gene expression to inhibit cancer cell proliferation via the NAMPT-NAD + -SIRT1 pathway	Pyruvate is a glycolytic metabolite used for energy production and macromolecule biosynthesis. However, little is known about its potential functions in tumorigenesis. Here,we report that exogenous pyruvate inhibits the proliferation of different types of cancer cells. This inhibitory effect of pyruvate on cell growth is attributed to its function as a signal molecule to repress histone gene expression, which leads to less compact chromatin structure and misregulation of genome-wide gene expression. Pyruvate represses histone gene expression by inducing the expression of NAD + biosynthesis enzyme, nicotinamide phosphoribosyltransferase (NAMPT), which increases NAD + levels and NAD + /NADH ratio. This increase activates the histone deacetylase activity of SIRT1. Chromatin immunoprecipitation analysis indicates that pyruvate enhances SIRT1 binding at histone gene promoters where it reduces histone acetylation. Although pyruvate delays cell entry into S phase, pyruvate represses histone gene expression independent of cell cycle progression. Moreover, we find that administration of pyruvate significantly reduces histone expression and retards tumor growth in xenograft mice without significant side effects. Using tissues from cervical cancer patients, we find intracellular pyruvate concentrations inversely correlate with histone protein levels. Together, we uncover a previously unknown function of pyruvate in histone gene expression and characterize pyruvate as a potential anti-cancer agent.	Cancer/pathway
GSE141140	Transcriptomic profile of T cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) cell from patients in CHCQMU	The T cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia cells and normal T cells were collected from the patients in CHCQMU.  Then the RNA-seq were conducted to compare the transcriptomic different between those two types of cells.	NA
GSE141558	Effect of BRCA1 overexpression on genetic expressions of cervical cancer based on next generation sequencing	The cells were cultured in DMEM medium supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum (Sangon, China) and 1% antibiotic-antimitotic solution (Gibco, USA). The SiHa cells were transfected using Lipofectamine 3000 reagent following the manufacturer’s protocol and incubated for 48h for further analysis.The gene expression profiles were analyzed of SiHa cells transfected with GV230-BRCA1 or GV230 plasmid to assess effect of BRCA1 overexpression on genetic expressions of cervical cancer.	Cancer
GSE137931	CD48-dependent protective autophagy in conventional human T cells promotes restimulation-induced cell death resistance	Transcriptome profiling and functional analyses on expanding Tcons revealed that FOXP3 enhances expression of the SLAM family receptor CD48, which in turn sustains basal autophagy and suppresses pro-apoptotic p53 signaling.  Our findings suggest that FOXP3 governs a distinct transcriptional program in early-stage effector Tcons that maintains RICD resistance via CD48-dependent protective autophagy and p53 suppression.	NA
GSE92432	An optimization system for isolating and sequencing of single human colon cancer cells	Single cell sequencing (SCS) is a promising approach for precisely digging into the genetic heterogeneity at single cells level. Single cell whole genome/exome sequencing (scWGS/scWES) and single cell whole transcriptome sequencing (scRNA-seq) are methods of SCS and have been applied in various studies of solid tumors, e.g. liver cancer, breast cancer. However, no scRNA-seq-related studies of human colon-cancer tissue-samples have been conducted. In this study, we developed a modified and efficient colon-cancer-tissue SCSs system (named CCTSs-SCSs system) by combining four optimization technologies: tissue digestion, live and intact single-cells capture, single-cell RNA or genome amplification and sequencing, and bioinformatics analysis. This advanced system is applicable to both scRNA-seq and scWGS/scWES. Using this system, we successfully completed several single cells scRNA-seq and scWES, and found three key points of this system: an improved digestion system, FACS-based dead-cell-removal method for scRNA-seq, 20 cycles for scRNA amplification. Our CCTSs-SCSs system provides a reliable and efficient method of scRNA-seq or scWGS/scWES for human colon cancer tissue and contributes to single-cell level and precise studies for colon cancer.	Cancer
GSE128328	Gene expression profile in endometrial organoids cultured in normal follicular phase vs PCOS-like hormone profile	We generated scaffold-free endometrial organoids from human primary endometrial tissues. These organoids were subjected to stepwise hormone treatments for 14 days mimicking the proliferative phase of menstrual cycle or with constantly high testosterone mimicking PCOS conditions	NA
GSE123856	A non-catalytic function of carbonic anhydrase IX contributes to the glycolytic phenotype and pH regulation in human breast cancer cells	We have hypothesized that carbonic anhydrases (CAs) play a role in stabilizing both intracellular and extracellular pH to a value that favors cancer progression and metastasis. This is likely in cooperation with the ion transport family.  Here, we examined the expression pattern of selected ion transporters, glucose transporters, and carbonic anhydrases in a triple negative cell model of human breast cancer (UFH-001) and the effect of hypoxia.  Heat map analysis of RNA transcripts from normoxic and hypoxic cells were significantly different.  Additionally, our results show that transcription of the MCT1 monocarboxylate transporter, but not that of MCT4, was sensitive to hypoxia.  Both MCT1 and MCT4 were robustly expressed at the protein level, but neither were significantly upregulated by hypoxia. Only low levels of the vATPase and NHE1 transcripts were detected, which is consistent with little to no detectable signal at the protein level. Our data also show high transcript levels of the GLUT1-glucose transporter, CAII and CAIX.  Only GLUT1 and CAIX transcription were significantly increased by exposure to hypoxia.  CAXII transcripts levels were very low, confirming the lack of expression at the protein level.  Yet, CAXII transcription was significantly increased by hypoxia.  Overall protein levels of our proteins of interest matched transcription patterns.  These studies show a coordinate expression at both the transcriptional and translational levels of the monocarboxylate transporters, the GLUT1 transporter and CAIX in the aggressive triple negative UFH-001 breast cancer cells.	Breast cancer/Cancer
GSE130342	High RNA polymerase II occupancy on herpes simplex virus 1 late genes early in infection suggests progression to elongation is a critical switch to trigger late viral gene expression	We report the PRO-seq data generated from our analysis of RNA Polymerase II location along the HSV-1 genome at 3 and 6 hpi.  This data set includes analysis of the 3hr time point in cells infected in the presence of cycloheximide and the 6hr time point in cells infected in the presence of  phosphonoacetic acid, flavopiridol and acyclovir.  We have compared the data set to a cytoplasmic mRNA seq data set which is also included.  This consisted of polyadenylated, cytoplasmic RNA analyzed at 3 and 6 hpi post infection. Here we are depositing the results from this analysis providing the raw data sequence files along with our bigwig files produced when aligning it to a concatenated genome file containing the drosophila dm3 genome build, the human hg38 genome build, and the included HSV-1 (F-strain) genome with the external repeat sequences deleted.  This data provides a nucletide-resolution map of RNA Pol II location in all of the described conditions.  By comparing differences between cytoplasmic mRNA production and between Pol II occupancy patterns between samples, we have been able to discern that HSV-1 transcription is a highly regulated process, that involves mechanisms downstream of RNA Pol II recruitment to a HSV-1 promoter region.	NA
GSE141797	Human Tfh cell RNA bulk sequencing	We RNA bulk sequenced human Tfh cells sorted from healthy control and MS patient CSF.	NA
GSE76129	ZNF599 and DNMT3A coordinately control nuclear envelope organization by repression of SUN4 expression	Human-specific KRAB-ZF proteins are putative transcription factors and correlate with human cognitive and linguistic ability. The typical KRAB-ZF protein ZNF599 has been implicated in developmental delay. However, the underlying molecular mechanism is elusive. Here, we show a specific interaction of ZNF599 with DNMT3A, but not DNMT3B or DNMT1. Using CRISPR/Cas9, we generated a ZNF599-/- cell line that shows an irregular nuclear morphology with blebbings, dents and ridges. Interestingly, the irregular nuclear shape can be rescued by complement expression of wt ZNF599, but not with ZNF599 L178F, a mutant that has been described in patients with mental retardation. With transcriptome analysis by next-generation sequencing, we found several genes misregulated in ZNF599-/- cells, particularly an upregulation of SUN4, also known as SPAG4. Consistently, ectopic expression of GFP-SUN4 in wt cells shows a similar effect on nuclear morphology as observed in ZNF599-/- cells. Besides ZNF599, DNMT3A dependent DNA methylation is also required for repression of Sun4 expression as we observe an upregulation of Sun4 in murine Dnmt3a-/- cells. Thus, we conclude that ZNF599 and DNMT3A coordinately control SUN4 expression to regulate nuclear envelope organization providing a potential insight into the molecular mechanism of development delay pathology.	NA
GSE104608	Epigenetic Inactivation of Cysteine Dioxygenase Type 1 Contributes to ROS-dependent Progression of Colorectal Cancer	We performed a comprehensive investigation to understand the clinical and biologic significance of CDO1 methylation under various circumstances in CRC tissues and cell lines. The restoration of CDO1 function impaired ROS detoxification and changed the effect of ROS on cell viability. We performed RNA-seq which reveals the differential transcriptome profiles to interpret those changes following the restoration of CDO1 function.	Cancer/Colorectal cancer
GSE111071	Comparative Transcriptome analysis of hESCs- and iPSCs-derived lentoid body	Purpose: To investigate the transcriptomes of H9 human embryonic stem cells (hESCs)- and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) originated induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs)-derived early stage lentoid bodies at day 24 through RNA-Seq based whole transcriptome sequencing. Methods:  The PBMC obtained from a healthy donor were subjected to generate iPSCs using Sendai-virus delivery system Cytotune 2.0 whereas the H9 hESCs were obtained commercially. Both hESCs and iPSCs were differentiated into lentoid bodies using “fried egg” method with feeder-free conditions as described previously. The differentiating lentoid bodies were examined for the expression of lens-specific and pluripotency markers at days 0, 6, 10, 15 and 24 by quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR). Briefly, four biological replicates for each hESCs- and iPSC-derived lentoid bodies at day 24 were used for the RNA-Seq library preparation followed by sequencing on a single lane of HiSeq 2500. The raw reads were processed and analyzed using Lasergene Genomics Suite and the expression profiles were examined for differential expression using Spotfire DecisionSite with Functional Genomics. Results: The differentiating lentoid bodies at day 24 revealed transparent lens like morphological features with an increased expression of lens-specific markers including CRYGC. A total of 193.41, and 170.00 million reads were obtained for hESCs- and iPSCs-derived lentoid bodies, respectively. Of these, >96% reads aligned to the human reference genome resulting in >200x sequence coverage for both hESCs- and iPSCs-derived lentoid bodies. Additional analysis identified expression (≥ 0.659 RPKM) of 13,991 and 14,018 genes in hESCs- and iPSCs-derived lentoid bodies, respectively, representing ~70% of the total human protein-coding transcriptome expressed in lentoid bodies. Finally, a comparative analysis of both hESCs- and iPSCs-derived lentoid bodies transcriptomes identified >96% similarity at the gene level. Conclusion: The transcriptome analysis revealed an overall similar transcriptional profile in both hESCs- and iPSCs-derived lentoid bodies during differentiation at day 24.	NA
GSE111620	RNA-seq analysis of PRMT5-regulated genes in irradiated/non-irradiated LNCaP cells	DNA Double-strand break (DSB) repair is critical for cell survival and genome integrity. Upon recognition of DSBs, repair proteins are transiently upregulated to facilitate repair through homologous recombination (HR) or non-homologous end joining (NHEJ). We present evidence that PRMT5 cooperates with pICln to function as a master epigenetic activator of DNA damage response (DDR) genes involved in HR, NHEJ, and G2 arrest (including RAD51, BRCA1, and BRCA2) to upregulate gene expression upon DNA damage. Contrary to the predominant role of PRMT5 as an epigenetic repressor, our results demonstrate that PRMT5 and pICln can activate gene expression, potentially independent of PRMT5’s obligate cofactor MEP50. Targeting PRMT5 or pICln hinders repair of DSBs in multiple cancer cell lines, and both PRMT5 and pICln expression positively correlates with DDR genes across 32 clinical cancer data sets. Thus, targeting PRMT5 or pICln may be explored in combination with radiation or chemotherapy for cancer treatment.	Cancer
GSE126147	CASZ1 directly regulates expression of myogenic genes through regional epigenetic modifications to induce muscle and rhabdomyosarcoma cell differentiation	This SuperSeries is composed of the SubSeries listed below.	NA
GSE131565	RNA-Seq analysis of primary human keratinocytes exposed to Cannabidiol	RNA-Seq analysis of primary human keratinocytes exposed to Cannabidiol	NA
GSE133887	Compensatory Csf2-driven macrophage activation blunts long-term efficacy of therapeutic Csf1r inhibition in breast-to-brain metastasis	Tumor microenvironment-targeted therapies are emerging as promising treatment options for different tumor types. Tumor-associated macrophages/microglia (TAMs) represent the most abundant non-malignant cell type in brain metastasis and are known to support metastatic colonization and outgrowth. We used the colony-stimulating factor 1 receptor (Csf1r) inhibitor BLZ945 to target TAMs at distinct stages of the metastatic cascade in experimental breast-to-brain metastasis and demonstrate that Csf1r inhibition leads to anti-tumor responses in prevention and intervention trails. However, compensatory Csf2-mediated pro-inflammatory TAM activation blunts long-term efficacy of Csf1r inhibition by inducing signatures associated with neuroinflammation followed by wound repair responses that foster tumor recurrence. Combined blockade of Csf1r and Csf2rb-Stat5 signaling leads to sustained tumor control and a normalization of microglial activation states.	NA
GSE136339	Whole transcriptome RNA sequencing of human cells after HCV infection (ML-1 thyroid cell line, primary thyrocytes and Huh7.5 hepatocyte cell line)	HCV infection induce thyroid dysfunction by influencing both immune and non immune thyroid-toxic mechanisms.  Similar to hepatocytes, HCV infection of thyrocytes had a significant effect on pathways of lipid and glucose metabolic processes (Figures 6A-C). These findings may suggest that HCV infection has a dual effect, inducing pathways that trigger autoimmunity as well as metabolic pathways.	pathway
GSE141633	The landscape of alternative splicing in aggressive prostate cancers	We sought to define the landscape of alternative pre-mRNA splicing in prostate cancers and the relationship of exon choice to known genetic driver alterations. To do so, we compiled a meta-dataset comprised of RNA-Seq samples from publicly available sources representing a range of phenotypes from normal tissue to drug resistant metastases. We subjected these samples to exon-level analysis with purpose-built software. We then correlated transcriptional signatures of cancer driver pathways with these alternative splicing events and discovered that Myc signaling was correlated with incorporation of a set of cassette exons found in RNA binding proteins. We experimentally verified this finding in a human prostate cell transformation assay. Our results connect changes in alternative pre-mRNA splicing to oncogenic alterations common in prostate and many other cancers. We also establish a role for Myc in regulating RNA processing by controlling the incorporation of nonsense mediated decay-determinant exons in RNA binding proteins.	Cancer/Prostate cancer
GSE118272	STRIPAK directs PP2A activity to promote oncogenic transformation	We evaluated the effects of suppressing MAP4K4 on transcriptome and YAP1 pathway based on the observation that partial suppression of MAP4K4 leads to transformation through activation of YAP1. Mutations and deletions involving subunits of the serine-threonine phosphatase PP2A occur in a broad range of human cancers, and partial loss of PP2A function contributes to cell transformation. In particular, displacement of regulatory B subunits by the viral oncoprotein SV40 small-t antigen (ST) or mutation or deletion of PP2A subunits alters the abundance and types of PP2A complexes in cells and induces cell transformation in human cells. Here we show that ST not only displaces common PP2A B subunits but also promotes PP2A A-C subunit interactions with a set of alternative B subunits (B’’’, striatins) that are components of the Striatin-interacting phosphatase and kinase (STRIPAK) complex. We found that members of the STRIPAK complex are required for ST-PP2A induced cell transformation. PP2A interacts with and dephosphorylates the STRIPAK-associated kinase MAP4K4, which induces cell transformation in part through the regulation of the Hippo pathway effector YAP1. These observations identify an unanticipated role of MAP4K4 in transformation and show that the STRIPAK complex plays a key role in defining PP2A specificity and activity.	Cancer/pathway
GSE118442	Assessing placental maturity through histological and transcriptomic analyses in idiopathic spontaneous preterm birth	Assessing placental maturity through histological and transcriptomic analyses in idiopathic spontaneous preterm birth	NA
GSE128054	MYT1 attenuates neuroblastoma cell differentiation by inhibiting retinoic acid signaling pathway	This study first reveals that MYT1 is a potential oncogene in neuroblastoma, which is significantly correlated with poor prognosis and represses cellular differentiation via interrupting retinoic acid signaling pathway.	pathway
GSE129263	MTR4 drives tumorigenesis of hepatocellular carcinoma by controlling alternative splicing of metabolic genes through PTBP1 recruitment	Aberrant alternative splicing (AS) is implicated in cancer metabolic reprogramming that supplies cancer cells with energy and substrates for biosynthesis. Therefore, the elucidation of the mechanism underlying aberrant AS in cancer cells is important for developing specific and effective therapy. We demonstrated that MTR4, a RNA helicase important for RNA quality surveillance, is frequently overexpressed in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and is correlated with increased glycolysis and poor prognosis of HCC patients. MTR4 is required for tumorigenesis of HCC cells by promoting glycolysis and expression of glycolytic genes. MTR4 binds to specific motifs of pre-mRNAs, including those of the key glycolytic genes, and regulates their AS by recruiting PTBP1. We discovered that MTR4 is a direct transcriptional target of c-Myc, suggesting that MTR4 mediates the metabolic function of c-Myc in HCC. These findings reveal mechanisms driving cancer-specific AS profile and present MTR4 as a specific therapeutic target for treating HCC.	Cancer
GSE141126	Transcriptome analysis-identified long noncoding RNA CRNDE in maintaining endothelial cell proliferation, migration, and tube formation	Obesity is a leading risk factor for type-2 diabetes. Diabetes often leads to the dysregulation of angiogenesis, although, the mechanism is not fully understood. Previously, long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) have been found to modulate angiogenesis. In this study, we asked how the expression levels of lncRNAs change in endothelial cells in response to excessive palmitic acid treatment, an obesity-like condition. Bioinformatics analysis revealed that 305 protein-coding transcripts were upregulated and 70 were downregulated, while 64 lncRNAs were upregulated and 46 were downregulated. Gene ontology and pathway analysis identified endoplasmic reticulum stress, HIF-1 signaling, and Toll-like receptor signaling as enriched after palmitic acid treatment. In addition, we newly report enrichment of AGE-RAGE signaling pathway in diabetic complications, IL-17 signaling, and cysteine and methionine metabolism by palmitic acid. One lncRNA, Colorectal Neoplasia Differentially Expressed (CRNDE), was selected for further investigation. Palmitic acid induces CRNDE expression by 1.9-fold. We observed that CRNDE knockdown decreases endothelial cell proliferation, migration, and capillary tube formation. These decreases are synergistic under palmitic acid stress. These data demonstrated that CRNDE is a regulator of endothelial cell proliferation, migration, and tube formation in response to palmitic acid, and a potential target for therapies treating the complications of obesity-induced diabetes.	Obesity/knockdown/pathway
